Speaker 1:      

Speaker 1:  

Speaker 2: Rachel and Darren, any words for our incredible finalists? Baker, I have absolutely loved being in the shed with you, so I cannot wait to see what you bake in the final. 

Speaker 3: It's been a real joy to see you grow in this shed. It's been an absolute privilege to taste your delicious fakes, and it's a real honor to know you as people. Thank you. 

Speaker 2: And since we think you're also fabulous, we've got you all a little finale surprise. In a twist, we're going to get you to bake all the bakes from the past 10 weeks in just six hours. Just joking. 

Speaker 1: Your real surprise is a guest judge. 

Speaker 2: And no, before you ask, it's not Judge Judy. She hates Kate. With a career that spans decades, this judge is one of the most beloved bakers in the country. This judge is a true national treasure. This judge is Bake Off Royalty. That's right, Baker. Please welcome the exquisite, the exceptional, the glorious Maggie Brown! Oh, my God! 

Speaker 1: Wow! Oh, Maggie, we are so excited to have you here. 

Speaker 2: Oh, it's so lovely to be here. You know, the Bake Off shed is so special to me. And the excitement of being here for just the finale, sort of like my icing on the cake. But I can't wait to see what you bake for us. For your final signature bake, the judges would like you to make a high tea. You must make three items with a mixture of savoury and sweet. 

There must be six of each item, so 18 in total. And of course, they must be worthy of a signature finale bake. Judges, any words of advice for our finalists? I'm looking for your creativity and your personality to shine through your bakes. 

Speaker 3: High tea is all about being petite, so I'm looking for some light and delicate bites. 

Speaker 2: My advice is have fun! Bakers, you have three hours to make your high tea. On your marks, get set, BAKE! Good luck, good luck, good luck, good luck! Good morning! 

Speaker 1: Have fun! 

Speaker 2: Oh, my goodness, Maggie, beer wash in the door. Definitely a surprise, but just absolutely love it. What an honour and thrill it will be to bake for Maggie. It's hard enough to believe that I'm here in the shed for the finale, as it is, but to have Maggie beer here as well, it's out of the book. Rachel and Darren have shared with me a lot about the bakers and how good they are, so I can't wait to actually taste their bakes. This is my chickpea, canis basa, and you cook it like a porridge. It's the grand finale, our three finalists are so talented. 

There's really nothing in it. I want to see them all do really well today. I've chosen flavours that are really, really true to me and my style and my inspiration, which is my family and where I've come from. 

Speaker 3: High tea is where our bakers can get really creative. I want to see innovative design, I want to see texture, and something delicious to eat. 

Speaker 2: I smell parmesan, I smell delicious. I'm just getting the bata ready for my parmesan cake. I think one of the best things to come out of the shed is the people that you meet, these two in particular, we've become really close. There's some really strong friendships that will carry on beyond the shed. Adams and Priest with inventive designs. Can I spin the wheel? Give it a little flick and the arrow should give a spin. In four technical wins. First position, Adam. 

Speaker 3: Adam, again. Adam! 

Speaker 1: He's also enjoyed a tipple. 

Speaker 2: One for the syrup, one for me. And an out of the space. Bottoms up. Hello. Hi Adam. 

Speaker 1: Hi Adam. Hello Adam. Excuse the messy bench. Oh no, no, I feel very at ease with the messy bench. Good. 

Speaker 2: Adam's high tea will include a speculas and frangipan tart, lemon, myrtle and ginger biscuits, and a parmesan cake with tomato, chilli jam and pesto. 

Speaker 3: This sounds really ambitious and also sounds very delicious. 

Speaker 2: All those flavours, they sound wonderful. Adam, the thing that I can say most of all is look for balance. The balance of the fillings with the pastry or the biscuit is something that I've really improved on since I've been in the shed. I'm looking forward to seeing what you can do. I'm so excited to have you here. These are my hazelnut biscuits. 

They get sandwiched together and they'll sit on their sides. Hi Lona. Hello Lona. I need you to tell me all about what you're going to do. The title of my high tea is Lona's Moorish High Tea. I have been told that I need to bring more, more flavour, more design, more filling. 

I want to show that I can be more. Awesome. Maggie, we love more. We've always been about more. With the help of Kat Bernard. With my sous chef. Lona's love of vintage has shown. It's inspired by Sevenies wallpaper. But it's her clever use of complex flavours. 

Speaker 3: Wow, fennel. Quite a powerful flavour, isn't it? That have wowed the judges. That's really impressive. 

Speaker 2: It tastes so delicious. Week after week. 

Speaker 3: So really excellent dessert. Well done. 

Speaker 2: Lona's Moorish High Tea will include hazelnut biscuits decorated with carrot halva. It clays filled with a chestnut cramboitisserie and chickpea panisse with black garlic aioli. And anchovies. The concept of black garlic and anchovy and chives, you're talking my language. But in the anchovy, that can be overpowering. 

You also need texture as well as balance. The panisse is super creamy on the inside. But I do it in a very, very hot oven, 230, with lots of olive oil, so it gets a crispy golden crust. 

I think that's really important to have that bit of texture against that beautiful fuziness of the black garlic. With multiple batches on the go, the finalists must perfect the art of multitasking. The first round may be in the oven. These are the tart shells. It's going in the oven to blind bake. 

But it's straight on to the next. This is the start of my kaya in my miso. Kaya is a stirred coconut custard that we eat a lot for breakfast in Singapore. 

This is a really big part of Asian culture. We don't ask, you know, how are you? Or you don't say, I love you. 

You say, have you eaten yet? Laura's Calypso creations celebrate into heritage. My grandma's recipe, she passed it on to me before she passed away, and it's like a very important kind of responsibility that I hold. Pushing boundaries with flavors. Wow. She took the judges along for the ride. 

Speaker 3: It's so inventive. I love how so many of your bakes tell us a story. 

Speaker 2: This is some rehydration seaweed. I'm just going to blitz it up so that I can add it into my scones. It's nice and fine. Laura's Vevno Place Like Home High Tea will feature a kaya milkweed, jasmine tea biscuits with lychee jelly, and seaweed scones topped with salmon. 

Speaker 3: How are you going to get the seaweed flavor into the scones? 

Speaker 2: I'm going to mix some cream up to make a butter, and then I'll mix it in with some furikake and some nori as well. 

Speaker 3: Furikake. That amazing combination of umami flavors. Totally. 

Speaker 2: Have you really enjoyed being in a baker's shed? It's been absolutely the best. I've learnt so much from Darren and Rachel and the other bakers, so I've loved making it, and I just feel honored to be here. Oh, that's great. Well, we've loved tasting all your delicious creations, so it's been fantastic. 

Thank you. So this is No Place Like Home, so I'm going to have to say you're Dorothy, but then you're going to have to tell me who's the Tin Man, Scarecrow, Am I the Wisp? 

Speaker 1: I'm the Wisp. I am Scarecrow. She went there. I went there. I fell, Tin. Thanks, Lola. 

Speaker 2: This is my shu pastry. I actually piped it in really long lines so that I can freeze it and precisely slice it into the exact same size. Bakers, you have the amount of time it takes me to find my name on a seating chart even though there's a long line behind me. You have one hour. 

Speaker 1: Ah, one hour. 

Speaker 2: Time is running out for the bakers to cook. Be good, guys. Cool. It's got a tuffle. And creative perfect fillings. I'm just adding some lemon-merciled tea leaves to my curd just to infuse as it cooks, and then hopefully adds another layer of lemon to my biscuits. I'm just preparing the black garlic mayonnaise. 

Ooh, sorry. I have curd up my back. A lot of spillage is happening today. Where did the time go? 

I know. I spilled oil all over the place. That's where the time went. Hello, Lola. If you need help in the shed, you can just go... Oh, that'll come in handy, actually. 

I've loved the laugh and hugs and all the things you've done to pick us up and keep us going. Is that an invitation? Yes. Good hug, good button. Is this friendship? I hope so. Oh. I'm going to check my shirt. 

Speaker 1: I'm going to shoot. This 

Speaker 2: is my rough puff pastry for the Mifu. I am happy with this. It's looking lovely and clear. Fakers, you have the length of time that Darren can go without starting a sentence with the words I and love. 30 minutes. You have 30 minutes. I'm just going as fast as I can and hoping for the best. They're beautiful and fluffy, these ones. 

I should get them on the plate now with all of the kutrumom that I wanted. Just about to start assembling my bits and pieces. Which bit is this? This is my parmesan cake. Can I offer you a sample? 

It's nice that you offered it to me so I don't have to see a one. I'm just going to go back and brag to Natalie that I got a pinch from her. Feeling it right up so that there's no holes. I'm feeling really accomplished. Can't quite believe that I've done all of this in three hours. Adding some parmesan crisp for a bit of colour and movement. Bethes, you have ten minutes to go. The time is just flying. I'm going to be tight. 

Speaker 1: I'm just piping the curd onto my lemon and ginger biscuits. I'm going to dream about mayonnaise. My hands shaking. 

Speaker 1: I'm going to be a little bit more relaxed. Final touch of bacon. I'm feeling good. 

Speaker 2: Everything's come out as planned. So hopefully the tasting goes well. Ten, nine, eight, seven, eight. Oh my gosh. Three, two, one. Step away from the tiny, delectable thing. Congratulations. Final signature bake. Oh my god, I got it done. 

Speaker 1: Beautifully presented. 

Speaker 3: Very high tea. Very elegant. 

Speaker 2: I love you've got that exactness about every single one. We have to get into it. 

Speaker 3: We'll start with the parmesan cake first. 

Speaker 2: I love the parmesan fail. Really thin and golden. Oh, it smells so good. The tomato is really sweet, but that end of chilli. It is beautifully balanced. You've managed to retain that lovely bite in the parmesan cake. So it isn't soggy. It has that nice texture. 

Speaker 3: A really delicious blend of sweet and salty and the pesto on top. I think you've created something that's colourful and works well. 

Speaker 2: We should try the speculus of frangiband tots. Yep. Oh wow. You've managed to capture the lovely warmth. It works so well against that almond. This pastry is great. It's come together beautifully. 

Speaker 3: The cream was really nice and smooth and it offsets the crunch. Well done. Thank you. 

Speaker 2: Alright, lemon and ginger biscuit. I feel like the very obedient Labrador that doesn't get people food. 

Speaker 3: Wow. Adam, I love it. They're really bright and fresh. I love the tang coming through that lemon and then you get the heat of the ginger. 

Speaker 2: Lemon and ginger can so easily overtake and you've got it just perfectly. You have made a very deceiving biscuit. It looks simple, but cappale. So well done in creating a beautifully textured biscuit that also packed full of flavour. It's a great start for me to come in and see what you're made of. It's fantastic. Thank you. Such a chic and sophisticated presentation. 

Speaker 3: I love how they're all completely identical. 

Speaker 2: They actually look as moored as I suspect they will taste. Thank you. We should start with black garlic and anchovy panisse. 

Speaker 1: The batter is firm but not tough. And then you've got the creaminess of the black garlic. So you've managed to get texture and balance, which is what I'm always looking for, and flavour in Spain. 

Speaker 3: Alona, that was absolutely delicious. Chickpea batter was something really intelligent. I love the fact that it was unusual, but it was cooked absolutely perfectly. Love big flavour. You get that from the aioli and of course the anchovy on top. Carrot cake with hazelnut and the carrot, however. 

Speaker 2: I love the delicateness of the hazelnut biscuit. The textures are really beautiful because you get that crunch, that crumble, that creaminess, and then a little bit of chew with the carrot. So you really created a wonderful journey with the textures. I can't wait to try this Mont Blanc eclair because I love choux pastry, I love chestnut and I love chocolate. 

Wow, I mean, just feeling them, you can feel they're well filled. The unsweetened chestnut, it's just fantastic because, you know, chestnut is so rich and it can be cloying, but it's not. 

Speaker 3: Really well done. The choux pastry, nice and crispy, and the glaze on top is beautiful. 

Speaker 2: If I had asked my favourite, I would have to go to the bottom drawer. I would second that. 

Speaker 3: The bottom one is absolutely my favourite. 

Speaker 2: I think you've discovered who your number one fan show these are. 

Speaker 1: You've presented them beautifully. The scone with the salmon and the roe and the furikaki looks just so moorish. Alright, we're going to have a scone. 

Speaker 3: Wow, Laura, back in London, we never had any flavours like this with our scones. Very traditional. I love the saltiness, I love the savouriness, the umami. It's the perfect start to a high tea. 

Speaker 2: Thank you. The salmon with the furikaki and then the salmon roe, because they like explode in your mouth. So you're adding like another sensation to the person eating it. I think that's really clever. I think it's another take on a scone and one that I would have any day. Picky. 

Speaker 3: The Jasmine Tea Biscuit next. 

Speaker 2: The biscuit is really fantastic. You've got that goldenness in it that gives it that nice crispness. 

Speaker 3: And the lychee just lifts everything. 

Speaker 2: Alright, the kaya jam milfe. That kaya jam, it's got that pandem flavour, but also you've got a bit of saltiness going on there, which is what you want in the kaya jam. The pastry is beautifully flaky. It really is good. Thank you. 

Speaker 3: Laura, you always nail the flavours of Southeast Asia. It's delicious, it works really well together. I love the textures. Well done again. 

Speaker 2: Thank you. What I love about Sterling and Rachel is they leave no scone unturned. Thank you so much. Thank you. I'm feeling so relieved. That's done. It was a big task. I'm really proud of myself that I put up something beautiful and very delicious. 

I was really proud with how the bake went today. Heading into the technical, I really hope I can keep the good momentum going. But who knows what we've got in store with Maggie here. I'm prepared for whatever comes my way tomorrow. 

And I'm going to go in with the same positivity I had today. Bakers. The technical bakers here for the final time. In being the finale, it is the trickiest technical bake known to all of humankind. This very special challenge has been set by real life angel Maggie Beard. 

Maggie, any hints for our bakers? Don't crumble under pressure. Give it a slap. What? Be firm. 

That's all. Judges, it's time for you to leave the shed so we can gossip about you behind your back. Good luck everyone. Good luck. 

Good luck guys. Now that they've gone, I can reveal to you that the judges would like you to make Maggie Beard's Guinea Fowl Turin. Maggie's Turin is made from a special short crust pastry with whole wheat flour. Inside, there are six separate layers. Panchetta, marinated Guinea Fowls, apricots, and three very special layers traditionally called sparse. 

Sort of like the sparse of me having to remember all of that. Bakers, you have three hours to make Maggie Beard's Guinea Fowl Turin. On your mark, get set, face! Three pages. 

Speaker 1: Three. Lots of very classic Maggie-type ingredients. So looking forward to seeing how it all comes together, it's generally very tasty. Our finale steak bake has been set by Maggie Beard, which seems very surreal. It's the team, I guess, that it's the hardest technical weapon. Here's my Guinea Fowl Turin and red onion and kumquat mamanade. Wow! 

Speaker 3: That is amazing. 

Speaker 2: Look at that crust. It's a short crust pastry, but using wholemeal flour. Oh, there you are. How beautiful are those layers? So we have the very finest layer of the panchetta. Then we have the fars, then the Guinea Fowl Brifts, and of course the dried apricots from my orchard. And what's the fars made of? Well, the fars is made of Guinea Fowl leg, pork belly and pork fat. If you don't get that cohesion of the fars, it will never work, and you have to slap it. 

Until it's fatty and sticky, or else it'll be crumbly. Okay. Yes, let me give you some. Oh, thank you. I love the colour in your marmalade. It's like bright red and orange. So inviting. 

Speaker 3: Maggie, wow. You're so naughty. 

Speaker 1: Naughty? There's lots of work in there. This is so delicious, but such a challenge. 

Speaker 2: Oh, thank you. It's so delicious. That pastry just melts in your mouth. And then you have that contrast of textures with the fars and the apricots and pistachios just add that crunch and texture. The bakers are definitely going to have a tough time doing this in three hours. 

Speaker 3: But we wanted to challenge our bakers with the very best, and I think Maggie has absolutely brought that in space. 

Speaker 2: I just hope that they embrace it and love it. So I'm just making my pastry at the moment, pulsing the flour and the lard together, and we'll add the butter and sour cream and then chuck it in the french tarette. I've never made a terrine before. I have made a short crust with lard, so I feel that that's something. 

And I'm just going to try and trust my gut. Maggie's first clue about not crumbling under pressure is about this pastry. Wholemeal flour tends to crumble a little bit because it's got a lot less gluten than regular plain flour. 

So it can be a bit tricky to work with. Oh! I'm just preparing my guinea fowl breast for marination. Have you cooked with guinea fowl before? I think that what I'm doing right now shows you. No. 

Speaker 1: I feel like this is a dish for Bernard. Oh, he might like this, sure, yeah. 

Speaker 2: Guinea fowl breast marinade is completed with juniper and orange. Then the most difficult step begins. Fuff. Fuff is a whipped up meat and aromatic mixture, like a sausage mix almost that kind of pads out the terrine. This softening the onions and the garlic here and about to add some burgers. Maggie's fast has no less than 17 different ingredients, including herbs, orange rind, guinea fowl and pork fat. 

And to bring it together, a cheeky technique. I am fuffing my fast. I have no idea if I'm doing this right or how. So when we're supposed to do it, I really have no clue. That's such an awesome record. 

Speaker 1: This is quite fun. It's also helping to manage my anxiety right now. I feel like it's come together. 

Speaker 1: Hey, what you doing? Just flapping my fast. Why? 

Speaker 2: Apparently we're doing this until the fat can yield. Does that work on like... Instead of going to the gym? Yes. If you just let me a number of times, Natalie? Yeah. 

I'm willing to find out. Oh, gosh. I think I've slapped the fast enough, yes. I'm going into the fridge to chill. 

I'm going to get some cold. Bakers, you have the length of time. It would take me to list 20% of Maggie Beers' accomplishments. Two hours. You have two hours. It's very important to get this bit right. Because the pastry is what's holding everything together. The pastry must be rolled and cut so the terrene assembly can begin. Why in the basin find the pastry with pancetta? It's slightly overlapping. This is the marinated guinea fowl breast. 

It's... I think the clue, B-Firm, is about making sure that the terrene firmly packs. It's important for the balance of flavour, the structure of the terrene, and to make sure you've got nice, even layers. Then I'm going on with spas and the apricots. 

These apricots are straight from the orchards of Maggie Beers, which is... Does most special thing ever? Looks like it will fit, which is lovely. Got to roll my lid out, John. Good touch. Arrange pastry leaves in the centre. Can't believe I'm putting... my final tech bake in the oven. It feels pretty good. 

Speaker 1: Lovely. The terrene will bake for up to an hour. So the bakers move on to the onion and come quite marmalade. My favourite thing baking in the set. I've loved every minute of this, and I don't want it to end. Oh, my God. Cook, please. I love the colour. 

Speaker 1: You can't really control. 

Speaker 2: What's happening in the oven? You've got to touch your waist. Baker Rooves! You have 30 minutes to come up with a better nickname than Baker Rooves! Also for your bake. Probably concentrate on your bake. Do that one. Alright, that's not even close. 

Speaker 1: Sorry, it's going to be quite a while. It's going to wait. 

Speaker 2: It's going to wait. Take it easy. I think you should do a sedochial or something if you've got this kind of time. Maybe we can just do some northern crosses. Northern crosses. Alright. It's been so long since I've played this game. I'm going to go get some more. The bakers must find the perfect balance between cooking and cooling. 

I don't know. The temperature gauge is going up and down. The terrain needs time to rest. Or it could crumble when coming out of the tin. Baker, two minutes to go. You should be getting your terrains out of the mould. Please don't fall apart. 

Speaker 1: Okay. Okay. Not long to go, Bacon. Looking pretty good. I'm holding together. 

Speaker 2: Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Hands off your terrains. And well done. Bacon, could you please bring your terrains to the table? 

Speaker 1: Oh God, how do you get it? The last one. Okay, useful. We're looking at a photo. 

Speaker 2: Who will have that? 

Speaker 1: For the final time, the judges will blind taste the technical bakes. Oh, look at them. 

Speaker 1: Well, Rachel and Darren told me that no matter how hard this was, you do it brilliantly. And I am thrilled by what I see. So well done. They were so right. 

All right, shall we start? It's so beautifully golden. It is very neatly done. The little leaves are lovely. The tension. It really tastes good. I'm certainly getting the citrus, but the seasoning's not quite strong enough. The pastry, oh, it crumbles in your mouth. 

Speaker 3: Inside the fast, the proteins have bound together, and it's a really well constructed terrain. Unfortunately, the master of the bakes is a little bit more caramelised, not quite as vibrant as Maggie's. 

Speaker 2: All right, let's try the next one. 

Speaker 1: This Guinness Outerene looks beautiful. 

Speaker 3: Oh, it's a nice crumbly feeling as I cut into that pastry. 

Speaker 2: Wow. Beautiful layers of the apricot, guinea fowl and the pistachio. 

Speaker 1: The paste is superb. 

Speaker 2: I would have liked the marmalade cooked a little more. There's a brightness of colour that comes from cooking it that bit further, but all in all, another very good job. I love the texture of the farce. They've done some good slapping. I didn't think I'd ever say that on a baking show before. 

Speaker 1: The top is particularly neat and pretty. The marmalade is really eye-catching, that colour. 

Speaker 1: I mean, it's almost matching. This is better than mine. This is like a jewel. 

Speaker 3: I can't wait any longer. I'm going to cut into this. All right, all right. 

Speaker 1: Go on. OK, what will it reveal? 

Speaker 2: I'm making some of the toy inside. OK, here we go, guys. Look at that. We've done very well with the layers. It looks like the farce is really well held together. 

I think it looks really good. Well done. Fantastic onion and kankwa marmalade. The pastry, the pie, it is so flaky and crumbly. I mean, it's awesome what they've done here. 

Speaker 3: I think the farce is really well made, and it's cooked really, really well. Absolutely sensational piece of work. 

Speaker 2: Well, Bakers, there's almost nothing in this. It's like trying to choose who is your favourite child. That's how close it is. Really well done. The judges will now rate the Bakes from first to third. In third position. 

Speaker 3: Laura, it was absolutely delicious. It was so close, but the marmalade just let this down a little bit. In second position. 

Speaker 2: In third position. Elona. The fineness of those layers of the pastry is so exciting, me. So thank you. That means in first position, it's Adam. Woo! 

Speaker 1: Surprise, surprise. 

Speaker 3: Mate, what's that? 

Speaker 2: Five now, you've won. I'm a little bit speechless, but really happy. I'm proud. That farce was the hardest part of this whole dish, and you nailed it. So well done. 

Thank you. I can't believe I've won my fifth technical, but I've won a technical set by every single judge that has come through this season. It's literally a dream come true. I am thrilled for this. There is nothing between us, and it really does come down to tomorrow's showstopper. 

I just want to go in there and have fun. Final ever showstopper is so crazy to me, say it like that. I'm going to put my best foot forward, do something that is really true to myself, and hopefully do myself proud. 

Speaker 1: Our finalists are preparing to enter the shed for one last time. Perfect weather for nice hot cup of tea. Bake off shines even on a rainy day. It's been a very lovely thing for me to walk back in and just have this little glimpse of you all. Maggie, you really put them to the test with your guinea fowl terrine. And I take my head off to them, because if I were given a recipe like that, I'd freak out. 

Speaker 3: They're so close at the moment. It's hardly anything in it. 

Speaker 2: You're so right. Each one of them is so talented. Adam, it's no wonder his confidence has grown five times. He's come first in technical. He's literally riding that technical wave. 

Speaker 3: Laura manages to think of his concept, think of a story, and she expressed that story in her bag. 

Speaker 2: What I love about Eloda is how well she can come up with a concept and then translate that into beautiful bags. One of the nicest things is that everyone's become friends while they're in the shed. The little pit talks and reassurance, it's really lovely. You know, over the years, I've seen all the ups and downs and the surprises, and it comes down to the showstopper. I'll tell you what my prediction is. It's going to be either Adam, Elona, or Laura. 

Speaker 1: Oh, wow. Oh, my gosh. So beautiful. Long ago. Good luck. I love you. 

Speaker 2: Have a good time. 

Speaker 1: Bacon. It's official. It's the last ever showstopper. What that means is Natalie and I will be eating as much leftover cake as we can and stealing anything that's not locked down. Obviously, I'm just kidding. 

Speaker 1: By tonight, one of you will be crowned Australia's best amateur baker. For your final showstopper, the judges would like you to make a 3D illusion cake. A cake designed to look like something else entirely. This is just an excuse to make Darren feel better because he keeps walking around eating inanimate objects going, I thought it was cake. It was a button, Darren. We all knew it was a button. 

Speaker 1: Your showstopping illusion cake can be any flavor, design, or style you like. So, bakers, go wild. 

Speaker 2: Judges, any hints for our bakers? Bake with joy in your heart and a springtour, kitchen twack if you've got this. 

Speaker 3: Have fun today and use the positive energy from your last day in this shed to produce your best bake yet. 

Speaker 2: I can't tell you how excited we all are because you're going to give us something so brilliant that it's going to be so hard to decide between you. So, give it all your love. Bacon, you have four hours to bake your illusion cake showstopper. On your mark, get set, bake! 

Speaker 1: Wow, wow, my mountain of butt up. Looks ridiculous. 

Speaker 2: Today, I am making a vase of flowers, clearly inspired by what's around the shed. This is literally the first time I have attempted an illusion cake before. I chose gingerbread cake because it's going to pack a punch. But more importantly, this is quite a dense, tight clump, which means it's really easy to carve. Oops, very much cake. 

Speaker 1: Hello, Adam. 

Speaker 1: Hello. Last time. Oh, no. 

Speaker 2: I loved it. Two mixes, you know. Makes you look very professional. Yeah, I started with one. It was a little bit too much going on, as you can see, they're both full. So, yeah, a lot of cake today. Adam's vase will be decorated with painted fondant and handcrafted wafer paper flowers. Inside, a lemon and thyme cake will be layered with blueberry compote and juniper buttercream. Juniper in the buttercream. I love the idea for that bitter note, so it's not super sweet. I'm going to add salt to that, so hopefully it balances the flavours out. Who of your friends and family are coming today? My partner, Nick. Oh, sorry. 

Speaker 1: He's a little... Thank you. Oh, come on, man. 

Speaker 2: Well, you said you wanted salt in your bag. Yeah, exactly. 

Speaker 1: This is how I'm going to balance the flavours. Oh. So much luck. Thank you. That's a lot. Thank you. You're welcome. Oh, God. 

Speaker 2: For my illusion cake today, I'm making a little Hawker coffee breakfast scene, which I'm calling kopitiam, which means coffee shop in Hokkien. Laura's Hawker breakfast will include two cups made from coffee sponge with an Irish liqueur jelly top. Brown butter sponge eggs will be coated in gold chocolate. The takeaway coffee bag will be made from dark chocolate coated sponge, surrounded in rice paper, with hazelnut liqueur jelly ice cubes. 

I love this idea. I mean, it brings back memories of me going to visit my relatives in Malaysia. I haven't seen your Hawker stall in this style, so I need more information. They used to serve takeaway coffees in sort of little freezer bags. Okay. And they'd pour the coffee in the bag with the ice cubes in the bag, and you'd walk around just the market with sipping on your coffee. 

Speaker 3: That sounds so ambitious. 

Speaker 2: It works in my head. That's how it comes together for you today. 

Speaker 1: See, good. 

Speaker 2: There we go. With the tiding on the line, the bag is must whiz, whiz and blend to create finale-worthy fillings and toppings. I'm making a mandarin jam for my mandarin. I like the play on the fillings being the fruit that I'm modelling. 

In a way, I hope people feel like they're actually eating into the real thing. Alona will sculpt gingerbread cake filled with jam in the form of various fruits. Kiwi, banana and mandarin. She will also create an onion containing gold chocolate ganache. All the fruit will be covered in marzipan and hand-painted. Oh, you've already made it. You're so quick, Alona. 

Speaker 1: I'm so impressed. It's amazing. It's just like the real thing. 

Speaker 2: So your flavours are all around the gingerbread and then the fruit and the jam to give the sweetness. I hope that there's sharpness in my jams as well, so that it's not overly sweet. I'm choosing not to use fondant today. I'm modelling with marzipan. 

It really looks organic. Good luck. Good luck, Alona. Thank you so much. I've got an Irish cream jelly and I have a hazelnut peculiar jelly. Very hot, very, very, very, very, very, very, very hot. 

Speaker 1: Hello. How are you? Good. So you've made things inspired by your family. Any of them going to be joining us? My mum will be joining us. I'm really excited to be in the shed and to see what's been going on. My mum thinks I make a testin on the show, so... Lovely. My mum is very surprised I'm still here. I've got my Swiss meringue buttercream on the way and the blueberry compost, which is almost done. 

There's a lot going on at the moment, but I think it's tracking OK. Right. Set little jetties. Fingers! Lights your cake. Time is an illusion. 

You've got to tell them how long we've got. Sorry. You're halfway. You've got two hours to go. 

Oh, crap. It's going so fast. This is my marzipan. It's just setting a little bit of almond extract. It's super strong. We're out of the oven. Lovely. What's the cake happening today? Good. They're beautifully moist and fluffy, and I think they're the perfect texture for carving. 

Speaker 1: So I'm just carving up the sections of the cake to make the bars, and that's fun. The construction will be the tricky part. One of the most important parts of a hawker breakfast is the soft-boiled egg. I'm going to mash up some of this cake and make it look like an egg yolk. I'm having fun. I actually feel like this is my thing. There's meek and bananas out of cake, you know, just the usual. Inside the shed, assembly is in full swing. 

Speaker 1: Maybe if I need someone to speak, I might need your help. 

Speaker 2: Outside, all of our wonderful bakers arrive to give the finalists some much-needed support. 

Speaker 1: Oh, my God. 

Speaker 2: I'm going to go into view today. How are you? Yeah. 

Speaker 1: I love your work. That's just awesome. I can't wait to see it all put together. 

Speaker 1: I should see you all. Oh, my God. 

Speaker 2: Keep it up. Oh, thank you so much. Are we in the chairs or the couch? If I get in there, I might want to get out. 

Speaker 1: Can we eat that? No. 

Speaker 2: Having the contestants back in here, it's full of energy again in the shed, and it's really a beautiful thing. I just felt like you've been watched. 

Speaker 1: Nothing like an audience. 

Speaker 2: When the judges cut this open, I'm hoping they see some nice, clean layers. This is one of the coffee cups. I'm just covering it in a crumb coat at the moment. 

I've carved a little bit off so that it's a little bit rounded. I'm blowing up some water balloons. They're going to be the mould for my kiwi fruits. I'm going to dip them in white chocolate that's been dyed green, and then I'm going to dust them with cocoa. Elena, that looks fantastic. I want to try it. I've never used this much fondant before. It needs to warm up a bit. 

Speaker 1: I'm just shaping some rice paper into sort of bag shapes over these moulds. And then I'm going to fill the little hunk of cake with a cup of ganache to make it look like a dark coffee. 

I think I'm tracking okay. I'm going to start making some onion skins. I paint it with colour and water. 

And I drape it on onion. This looks very exciting. We were hoping to get you another cat photo. Yes. But we ran out of cat, so we had to make one of our own. 

Speaker 1: It actually exists. 

Speaker 2: I think Darren was a little like nice and some whiskers would be fabulous. I'm going to leave it on with the onion. Good luck. Thank you. 

Speaker 1: White sneakers on a rainy day. Oh, mate. 

Speaker 2: I think the best thing about using fondant, it gives you that nice smooth finish. This is the one that's is non-negotiable that I have to get done. Because it's so cool. If I can get it done, it's cool. If I can't get it done, then it's nothing. Onion skins. So this is my take away plastic bag of coffee. And I will pop some jelly cubes in it. Bakers! 30 minutes to go. 

Speaker 1: Oh my God, 30 minutes. 

Speaker 2: I've got to make as many leaves and flowers as I possibly can. And I still need to paint the vase. You know some aliens that way for things. Yeah, yeah. Oh, wow. With the end in sight, the families arrive to give the finalists some love. Oh, Lord. So proud of you. Hi, P. 

Speaker 1: Hi, P. Would you like to take a picture with me? Shut it off, I'll take a picture. 

Speaker 2: Okay, where am I? 

Speaker 1: Oh, the race is finished. We'll show it to you. I've got one onion skin left to patch on. Hopefully it looks sort of like an onion. This is the first time I've painted fondant like this. Bakers! You have 10 minutes to go. Oh my gosh, it takes days and hours. Samora! 

Speaker 1: I've got a lot to do. Samora! Samora! I'm happy with it. I have the desire as well. Bakers! 

Speaker 2: One minute left. You think of what makes the last laugh. 

Speaker 1: Oh my God. 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Yes! 

Speaker 2: Adam, can you come to the front, please? Tell us what you've made for us. 

Speaker 2: I've made a vase of flowers. And so the cake is a lemon and time cake filled with blueberry compote, roasted salted almond, and a Swiss meringue buttercream with juniper. 

Speaker 3: It looks so pretty. 

Speaker 2: I love it. I love how all the petals have been beautifully painted. I love your vase. I love the scale of it, the symmetry of it, and I can't wait to taste it. 

Speaker 3: There's been a lot of work gone into that. It looks pretty amazing. 

Speaker 2: I love that bright, vibrant purple from the blueberries. It really looks appetising. Thank you. 

Speaker 3: Adam, that is absolutely delicious, mate. Really tangy lemon sponge. The buttercream, it's really cleverly done because it's very easy to overpower the juniper and it can become quite bitter. For me, it's a little bit simple, but sometimes simple is the best. 

Speaker 2: I was worried about the sweetness, but you've managed to retain a lovely tartness in the blueberry and the lemon syrup. That's really well balanced. The cake I love. I love citrus, and I love that it's moist, and I love the juniper. I would have put more 

Speaker 1: juniper in, but it is such a lovely cake. Thank you, thank you. Thank you. Ilona, please come up. 

Speaker 2: My showstopper is a fruit and vegetable still life. You certainly have created a still life. Those bananas, they look like they're ready for some banana bread. There is a gingerbread cake. The bananas have banana spread filling. The kiwis have a kiwi jam filling. 

Wow, it looks really fun. The mandarin has a mandarin jam filling, and the onion is filled with ganache. So this is the banana filling. The cake has this lovely warmth and a really nice bite to it, which I like in a gingerbread. I love the mother pen and the banana flavor with that soft spice. So I think you've done well. Kiwi next. 

Speaker 3: I love that kiwi fruit jam. So bright, so vibrant, and it's so delicious. It's just so delicious. It's just so fragrant, and really it's just a fresh flavor. 

Speaker 2: Gingerbread with the kiwi, unusual combination, but it worked very well. 

Speaker 3: OK, let's try the mandarin. It's not as realistic as your other fruit. 

Speaker 2: Ilona, do you know what it's just missing? It's taking a toothpick and adding those little dimples, but it's beautiful. The ginger is more dominant, and there's that lasting citrus in the back palate that is so lovely. Gingerbread with mandarin is such a good combination, because it really works. Come on, let's do the onion. 

Speaker 1: I'm going to do the raw onion though. 

Speaker 2: I've got some tissues if you start crying, Darren. 

Speaker 3: I've gone over the last time. Wow, what a cross-section. She's got the guava, the mandarin, the cold chocolate ganache going through the middle, which looks really great. 

Speaker 2: It looks like proper onion skin. It really does. It's fabulous. This is so clever. The caramel notes bring out that lovely gingerbread warmth. It's a delicious combination. 

Speaker 3: I'm not surprised you used that ginger cake throughout, because it was absolutely delicious. The presentation was absolutely spectacular, something an old master would be proud to paint. Very well done. 

Speaker 1: Thank you very much. 

Speaker 2: Thank you very much. Laura, please come up to the table. 

Speaker 1: This is gobekyang breakfast, which means hawker coffee shop breakfast. You have two cups of coffee sponge and a coffee buttercream. There's a jelly on top. Yes, it's an Irish coffee jelly. 

Speaker 3: All of those layers, but it's so much fun. 

Speaker 2: The soft-boiled eggs, a vanilla brown butter sponge with the same buttercream, and the takeaway coffee bag is coffee cake with dark chocolate. This brings back memories for me going to see my relatives in Singapore and Malaysia. I just love how you captured it. Fantastic job. Thank you. I think we should try the coffee bag. Plastic. Isn't it amazing? It's clever. The hazelnut liquor jelly goes so well with the chocolate and then the coffee. 

Speaker 3: The sponge is really more-ish. It looks spectacular, and from now on, I'm calling down all my drinks with hazelnut liquor. All right, egg next. Oh, it's got a crispy shell on the outside. Oh, wow, look at that. It's even got a little yolk. That is so cool. 

Speaker 2: The sponge has a wonderful texture and has that lovely caramel note, and I love that you put an egg yolk in there. Again, just fantastic attention to detail. 

Speaker 3: It's not easy getting that yolk in the center, you know? So congratulations on that. The only way you could have possibly improved on that is if you'd put, like, a little liquid center in there. So when we cut through, that would have been really awesome. 

Speaker 2: I love the whimsy of this, and I see it as a hard-boiled egg that you've cooked perfectly. 

Speaker 1: So the center is sitting there. 

Speaker 3: I think a cup of coffee next. Yeah, absolutely. 

Speaker 2: That crunch of the praline with the lovely coffee flavor, it's fantastic, thank you. Out of all the cakes, I think this is the one you've nailed, the flavors, the textures, and the visual. Thank you. 

Speaker 3: I love the little bubbles on top of the jelly. It's just giving that effect of freshly-frost coffee. I absolutely love this, and it's my favorite of all of the things that you've made on this board today. So really well done. Thank you. Bakers, well done. Those illusion cakes were sensational. We really love the visuals, and we love the flavors. 

Speaker 2: It's going to be so difficult for us to make a decision. Absolutely incredible job. Well done. 

Speaker 1: Looks really good. Oh, poor. Good job. It is so good. 

Speaker 2: I just have to come and give you a hug. Congratulations, Mrs. Coulomb. 

Speaker 1: Oh, would she have thought? Thanks, happy finale. Yay! 

Speaker 2: What a night. And it's so exciting that we're allowed in the grown-up's area as well for the first time. It's very nice here, I like it. 

Speaker 3: We've had such a magical week. We really have been impressed by all of the three finalists. And to have Maggie back as well has just been icing on the cake. 

Speaker 2: This is your first year in a Bake Off ship. Has it been everything you thought it might be? It's been a dream. 

Speaker 3: So good. For me personally, it's been an absolute dream come true. And I feel so lucky and blessed. 

Speaker 2: The energy, like, there's just the positive energy and the warmth. And you feel like it's a little family. Well, that is the Bake Off magic. And I had five years of it, and I'm so proud that you are sitting around here loving it as much as I did. 

Thanks, Maggie. I think we're in an impossible pickle because we have to make a hard decision on... It's going to be crowned the greatest Australian amateur baker. All of our finalists have been star baker twice. So this is neck and neck. This is a very tight competition. How did Adam go? Enjoy. 

Speaker 1: Oh, my God. Adam with his beautiful vase and delicate flowers, he really captured that horse's name look. 

Speaker 3: The blueberry offset with the lemon, it tasted absolutely amazing. 

Speaker 2: But the juniper in the cream just needed a bit more of a punch and a bit of gin, and I would have been even happier. 

Speaker 3: Mmm. It's so amazing. Yeah, I love this. It's definitely a winning bake. And what about a loner? She has got a very distinctive style. She's been so elegant, and her work has been so precise. In her showstoppers, each one of those cakes were amazing. 

Speaker 2: The onion got me more than anything else. It was so fantastic. 

Speaker 1: Yay! 

Speaker 2: I am so impressed, and I'm so proud of you. Thanks, Mum. It's true. 

Speaker 3: Loz's showstopper really did evoke a story, and she's been doing that the whole way through. 

Speaker 2: I really think she captured that feel you get from going to a coffee shop in Singapore. I was just blown away by her attention to detail. That plastic coffee with the straw and the ice. Yeah. I think she's special, like all of them. 

Speaker 3: The truth really is that we've got three winners in there already. 

Speaker 2: That's great, but like, who is the winner? Are you going to... 

Speaker 3: Keep the attention going. Final cheers. I love you all. Cheers. 

Speaker 2: BAKERS. Well done on making it all the way to the finale. It is such a huge achievement. It's been so great to have the chance to come back to the shed and see you all shine. Each one of you deserves to be here. Adam, Laura, Ilona. Every week you've reached new heights, and this is no exception. I want you all to leave this shed knowing each of you are brilliant bakers. 

Speaker 3: Guys, I absolutely love it here, and I absolutely love each one of you. Just sharing in your stories of food and your love of baking has been a real, real pleasure for me. Thank you very much. OK. Deep breath. Yes. 

Speaker 2: It's finally here, the moment we've been waiting ten weeks for. It is my extraordinary pleasure to announce that the winner of the Great Australian Bake-Off is... Laura. CHEERING AND APPLAUSE I knew it. Oh, my God! 

Speaker 1: Oh, my God! Oh, my God! 

Speaker 2: Congratulations. That's just one, the Great Australian Bake-Off. What's just saying that sounds ridiculous, like so crazy? I'm in shock. This is a complete dream come true, to be able to bring the title home and to do it with my mum in the room. Oh, my God! 

Speaker 1: My God! 

Speaker 2: I've just learnt so much from this whole experience. I've had the absolute time of my life. 

Speaker 1: Congratulations! Thank you so much. Laura. Thank you, Laura. 

Speaker 3: So pleased for Laura, a proper, worthy winner. She's been consistent throughout, and she's got better every week, and her bakes are delicious. 

Speaker 2: APPLAUSE The bakers are so amazing. Obviously, there has to be a winner, but I'm really proud of all the finalists. They have achieved some amazing bakes in the shed, and it's been wonderful to see how they've grown as well. Come. 

Speaker 1: Thank you. 

Speaker 2: This whole experience has been more than I could have possibly imagined, and I leave with more confidence in myself, which I think is the greatest gift the shed has given me. Oh, Elona! 

Oh! So amazing. I may not have won overall, but I do feel like I've won so much. 

I have grown and become stronger, not just my baking, but in my belief in myself that I can do anything. I think that's a really important thing for me to remember and to take away with me. 

Speaker 1: APPLAUSE Marking. 

Speaker 3: And show all the cameras. There you go. Thanks, man. Train come through. 

Speaker 2: I'm feeling it. Oh, I'm feeling it. 

Speaker 1: Ooh. Ooh. Oh, I'm OK. Oh! Oh, my God! That killed Rachel, too. 

Speaker 3: It won't be too thick. Oh, sorry. Oh! 

Speaker 1: It was near when I had longer hair. Are you ready, Tobine? I'll give you the good crack. 

Speaker 3: Oh! That was awesome. That's he from Kate. Whoo! 