Speaker 1: It's party week today! Come on, Paul, let's do the conga. 

Speaker 2: I am buzzing. 

Speaker 3: BOOING Tom was so excited when I said it was party week. He's been hoping for this theme for years. 

Speaker 4: Vote for the Tom Allen party, Tom Allen for Prime Minister! Eventually, vote for the Tom Allen party, everyone! Oh, that's sort of party. I knew it was too good to be true. 

Speaker 5: I'll vote for Tom. Thanks, Pistone. 

Speaker 6: Prime Minister's vote! CHEERING CHEERING Hello and welcome. 

Speaker 3: It was party week in the tent. Something never attempted before, and Prue knew there was only one way to get through it. Nice nose. Prue! Come on. 

Speaker 7: Come on, let's go. Put the bottle. I know. I know. I'm so sorry. 

Speaker 3: Josh was every eight-year-old at a party after too much sugar. 

Speaker 8: Just down to kind of coke in about a minute. 

Speaker 3: And it's just time for the latest instalment of Who Knew with Prue. 

Speaker 9: Some trees are bisexual. They're male and female on the same tree. 

Speaker 3: And... And a reminder that you can watch the rest of that episode on Channel 4 Catch Up. Tom will be back later to inspect the party food. Who's helped with the catering? 

CHEERING And, of course, we love having a peek at what you've been baking in your kitchens at home. Like Anne from Lithams and Anne's, who wanted to show off the cake she made for her husband, Stephen's 70th birthday. Stephen's a keen tennis player, and here's his cake. Clearly, Stephen has just completed a particularly exhausting five-setter there. But game-setting match to you, Anne. Brilliant. 

There'll be more of those later, along with details of where to send your pictures. Now, sadly, the party's over for one of the bakers, Christie. Oh! 

During party week, Christie really let her hair down and said something so shocking she couldn't even believe it herself. I like sausage rolls. I like sausage rolls as well, Christie. 

Something we can discuss in a lot more detail when she's here later in the show. To help us raise a toast to party week, I've invited a fantastic panel of celebrity Bake Off fans. Present us, Carla Moffitt, Camille Nabil Abou-Washid and Camille and actress and writer, Ashring B. Now, Carla, just lovely to have you with us. If you're hosting a party, what's on the menu? 

Speaker 10: Anything that's in the whoop-sile. Fucking going there. Just anything, be it sausage rolls, Scotch eggs, pork pies, paste pudding, breadsticks, sandwiches. Just like, you know... That sounds like a snack. What about you, Ashring? 

Speaker 11: I like when someone tricks me. Like, there's a whole dinner but small. Like, at Yorkshire putting with a whole dinner in it. You know, those little ones. Or like a little sausage roll or like a thimble of magic mushrooms or something. You know, just party quick. Buffet things that you're nibbling on. 

Speaker 3: Nabil, what food do you want to see on a buffet table? 

Speaker 12: I mean, I like things like Scotch eggs. Only enough for a lot of these desserts. I grew up in Nigeria and saw a lot of our desserts and a lot of our pastry-type stuff is very Scottish. So, like, we like sausage rolls, Scotch eggs. Very, very, very popular in Nigeria. 

Speaker 3: Anything dipped in lard? Yeah. Me too. That's the results. Ditto. OK, well, let's remind ourselves what happened when Bake Off had a bash. The quarterfinal. BEEPS And time to get the party started. With Paul's all-time favourite. Sausage rolls. Soy sauce, ginger, garlic. In the signature. 

Speaker 13: Anything's a louding pace, for sure. 

Speaker 3: But not a sausage roll! Matty turned up the heat. 

Speaker 14: Nice bit of kick there from the chilli. A bit of chilli flakes, yeah. 

Speaker 3: And earned himself a handshake. Aw! 

Speaker 15: Thank you for bringing me a sausage roll. 

Speaker 3: Caterpillar cakes in the technical. Oh, yeah. What anything but child's play. 

Speaker 7: In the first spot, we have this one. Tasia. 

Speaker 3: Beige was banned. She didn't rise. In the colourful, all you can bake buffet showstopper. 

Speaker 9: Josh, I think you've done really well. It's hard to fault anything. 

Speaker 3: Sadly, the party was over for Christy. 

Speaker 7: It's a bit rough and ready. Oh, no. It tastes great. 

Speaker 3: And she left the tent. And Matty's sporty bake... 

Speaker 16: Cricketball pies. That's delicious. 

Speaker 3: ...scored him his second star baker. APPLAUSE So, the signature challenge was to make Paul's all-time top treat, sausage rolls. Now, Bill, you quite like a bit of cooking, don't you? But can you make pastry? No, OK, here's the thing. 

Speaker 12: Like I said, culturally, we were told that cooking was OK for guys, but only girls bake. Oh! Yeah, I know. So, currently, I'm learning to bake from my daughters. Yeah, I'm trying to, you know, reverse all the toxic masculinity, which is almost as bad as gluten. 

Speaker 3: LAUGHTER Well, this might surprise you, but I can make the sausage roll. Just push it down a hill. Ay! APPLAUSE What a lovely smatter of applause. Thank you so much. On to Dan. Last week, he stunned the judges by serving up Thai green curry creme caramel that sounded disgusting, but tasted delicious. This week, it was dim sum-inspired sausage rolls. Sadly, the judges didn't go for his Chinese-inspired pork and prawn fillings. 

Speaker 10: Well, I'll be totally honest. I might sound thickier, but I didn't know you could put stuff other than sausages in sausage rolls. Do you know what I mean? The poll would be like, You can't! Well, yeah, because I just thought a sausage roll was just like a big old sausage and some pastry. 

Speaker 12: It is! I mean, what qualifies a sausage roll if there's no sausage in it? 

Speaker 11: Well, it's the big thoughts here that we're dealing with. 

Speaker 10: But, like, yeah, sticking prawns in that in. Oh, I don't know how I feel about that. 

Speaker 12: I just think we need to stick to the basics. A sausage roll should have some form of rolling. That was done to a sausage of some kind. I mean, if we don't hold on to this, I don't know where we're going as a society. 

Speaker 11: But I loved that something different was tried, that they threw a prawn into a sausage roll thing. And also, the show demands it. Now they expect, like, you know, glass-aid bombs inside of cakes that can, you know, connect to at least 3G of internet. And so, you can listen to the email on them. Like, the expectations are high, so, you know, give it a good whirl, I'd say. 

Speaker 3: Paul made quite a claim. 

Speaker 7: You can't beat a good sausage roll. I grew up with sausage rolls. I baked millions and millions of sausage rolls in my time. 

Speaker 3: I decided to work out just how long it would take to bake millions and millions of sausage rolls. Allowing for generous time to make the pastry and filling, then bake them for 30 minutes in batches of 12. 

Even if you only made one million and did nothing else for eight hours a day, that's 45,000 days, which is over 124 years. Unfortunately, Tasha and Christie got distracted from the task in hand when they discovered that they could see each other through their ovens. LAUGHTER Ours are fun. Now, Matty stayed classic with his sausage rolls. Pork, onion, apple, oh, and one other ingredient. Where are the chilli going? 

Up my arse, pru. Where's your... LAUGHTER In the sausage meat, obviously. Matty triumphed in the sausage roll signature because what did his flaky pastry have, everyone? LAMINATION! Of course, lamination! Now, here's the moment. Paul decided Matty was his man of the match. Oh, nice crisp. 

Speaker 14: Nice bit of kick there from the chilli. Little bit of chilli flakes, yeah. Ah! 

Speaker 15: Thank you for bringing me sausage rolls. 

Speaker 9: Very good sauce. 

Speaker 7: It's delicious. The onions really work, the apple really works. The chilli is great in there. It's really good. 

Speaker 16: Thank you, Matty. 

Speaker 3: Congrats to Matty on his Hollywood handshake! 

Speaker 11: APPLAUSE I'm still thrown by the fact that everyone said lamination and we just had to pretend like it was normal. LAUGHTER Lamination! OK, I'll just go on with my life now. 

Speaker 3: Scarlet, were you happy to see Matty get a handshake? 

Speaker 10: Yeah, like, his little eyes lit up and, like, yes, I know that, he did a simple sausage roll, but, like, his bottom was hard, his pastry was flaky. LAUGHTER He'd add lamination. He'd add all the elements you need, didn't he? 

Speaker 3: The tricky technical challenge was to make an all-too-familiar caterpillar cake, but that wasn't so familiar that Bake Off got sued by a large supermarket chain. LAUGHTER Over to Prue. 

Speaker 9: So, Paul, the famous caterpillar cake. The trick is... 

Speaker 3: Not to infringe copyright. 

Speaker 7: LAUGHTER The trick is getting the bake right. 

Speaker 3: Oh, OK, fair enough. Prue and Paul were a bit ying and yang about the challenge. 

Speaker 7: It's a terrific challenge. It's a Swiss roll sponge. 

Speaker 11: LAUGHTER I think the caterpillar cake is a great way of going, I am friends with you and I care about you and your birthday, but, like, within office working hours. LAUGHTER It's obviously quite a political cake because there are the lawsuits between Colin and Cuthbert, but I have a bit of showbiz gossip that after the lawsuits, they got together. And they had a little larvae cupcake. LAUGHTER It was just a little cake. 

Speaker 3: LAUGHTER Now, the instructions demanded that the baker's cup bits out of their Swiss roll sponge to achieve the required shape. Then it was time for the bakers to give their caterpillar cakes a face full of childish appeal. Enjoy yourselves, kiddy winks. 

Speaker 7: The decorations is where they can have a little bit of their artistic flair. All kids love that at the birthday party. 

Speaker 2: I am going to do the face. 

Speaker 5: I'm going to let it set and then put its little features on. 

Speaker 8: Rosie Cheeks may look quite nice. This will be the best bit of the whole cake, I think. 

Speaker 16: It's supposed to be a little cuter. It's a bit weird. It's not quite the children's party I was hoping for. WHISTLE BLOWS WHISTLE BLOWS WHISTLE BLOWS WHISTLE BLOWS WHISTLE BLOWS WHISTLE BLOWS WHISTLE BLOWS WHISTLE BLOWS LAUGHTER This is wow! 

Speaker 12: Joe! 

Speaker 3: You're acting. Go to the Lattricks. After award-winning. Wow. I think my favourite there was Matties, because nothing says fun children's party cake like a caterpillar that's had its mouth stitched up. LAUGHTER It looked like a new character in Thomas the Tank engine. Thomas the cheery one, Gordon the boasty one and Simon the serial killer. LAUGHTER Did any of those appeal to you? 

The faces on them. No. No. OK. Time now to ask the big question. 

What's that? That was, in fact, the dough for Tasha's bread milk pigs. Of course it was. They formed part of her ambitious farmyard themed buffet. There were so many elements to her showstopper that Mattie was wondering just how long Tasha would be stood there listing them. 

Speaker 2: I've made milk bread, pigs and blackberry creme de creme that show and pistachio and raspberry flavoured Viennese rolls with a raspberry and peach jam. 

Speaker 3: LAUGHTER In happier news for the second time this series, Mattie was awarded star baker. Congratulations to Mattie! Yay! Mattie was pulling out all the stops with his sporting themed buffet showstopper. 

Speaker 16: We've got a cricket ball curry pie, a orange cupcake golf course and some creme brulee donut basketballs. 

Speaker 3: Until now, the question, what's that spongy orange lump doing on a golf course has only been asked when Donald Trump's playing 18 holes at Mar-a-Dame. APPLAUSE Josh's impressive showstopper made the battle for star baker a close race. Was Mattie the right choice? 

Speaker 10: I mean, I'm not going to take it away from him because he did amazing, but that Christmas showstopper... 

Speaker 11: Sounds like you're taking it away from him there, Ed. I'm sorry! 

Speaker 10: But those little snowmen macaroons, like, I would pay for them. 

Speaker 3: And let's have an extra burst of celebration to mark the fact that thanks to Mattie, we saw the first appearance in the tent this series of a deep fat fryer. APPLAUSE Thanks, guys. 

And after the break, Tom Allen will be here with his big paper plate to sample the buffet provided by our audience bakers. Back in a bit. APPLAUSE APPLAUSE Welcome back. 

I'm here with Bake Off Fan Scarlet Moffat, Nabil Abdul Rashid and Ashing Bee. Time now for the party to really get started. It's Tom's tent talk! APPLAUSE APPLAUSE Oh, hi, everyone. 

Speaker 4: Hi. Hi. Sorry, we've been having such a party backstage. Hi. Hi. How are you doing? Oh, the party's in full swing back there. Do you want any of these? Oh, don't worry about this. Oh, yes, we've had all your normal party foods, yes. You know, the classics, brulee doughnuts, courant reeds, bread, pigs. Yes, this week it was party week. I enjoyed the no beige theme. It meant we got to see so many colours like Christie's marvellous sweet factory. Oh, no, that one's beige. 

Maybe there's another one. How about Josh's courant? Oh, no, that was beige as well. OK. How about Tasha's creme diplomat sheep? Oh, OK, also beige. 

Gosh, baking things in the oven really puts the beige back in, doesn't it? Oh, well, never mind. I'll be honest. I don't know if this is a party I really want to go to. It's all got a bit less friendly in the tent lately. Remember when they used to all hold hands at the end? 

Now look at them. Have they all fallen out? Is it getting too competitive? Or is it the fact that guys have outnumbered the girls now? And they're all a bit too macho for that. Mattie's even sitting like he's in a football team photo. And speaking of lads, lads, lads, down by the scene on his baking secrets. 

Speaker 10: So what I'll do is look at my children, copy what someone else is doing. Ha-ha-ha! Ah! 

Speaker 4: Ha-ha-ha! It turns out that Dan is just a copycat and feels nothing but disdain towards his fellow man. So after all that, it turns out Dan... I actually quite like you. But that's the new macho tent, isn't it? Just full of men who struggle to show affection for each other. Look at the way Paul talks about the bakers. Well, let's have a look at these pigs. 

Well, I suppose that must mean he loves them. Anyway, I'd better get back to this party. Someone's got the karaoke machine out and the neighbours have called the police. Turn it down, Prue, for goodness sake. Anyway, see you next week. Prue, get that community support officer out of a headlock. I've told you! 

Speaker 3: Thanks, Tom. Right, let's take a look at some of the pictures you've been sending in of the baking you've been doing at home. Emma Inhove wanted to celebrate her daughter Frieda's 10th birthday in style. Not the easiest challenge, given that Frieda had requested a ferret-themed party. But Emma gave it her best shot and here's Frieda's cake. Oh, God. Emma also arranged for a real ferret to put in an appearance, and here's the moment the two ferrets met. 

Speaker 11: Oh, my God. That is a horror picture. All of that. Even the ferrets, like, what the hell is that? 

Speaker 3: When it comes to creating a birthday cake for her granddaughter Matilda, Deborah in Somerset's not one to chicken out. Oh, wow. That is great, isn't it? It's a chocolate cake with individually handmade fondant feathers. 

Meanwhile, in Middlesex, Natalie was hard at work creating a cake for the family dog Hazel's second birthday. Aw. Just look at that intelligent little face. Let's find out how successfully Natalie captured Hazel in cake form. 

Those delicate features of sportour, aren't they? Happy birthday, Hazel. And finally to Kersti in Kent, who's an A-level sociology student. She decided to put her baking skills to the test with a recreation of none other than German philosopher Karl Marx. 

But somewhere along the line, Karl Marx seems to have morphed into Paul Hollywood. Nevertheless, dust is capital, Kersti. Well done. Thank you for Tom to interrogate our studio audience on the bake they brought along. Don't let her worry. Over to you, Tom. 

Speaker 4: Thanks, Joe. Well, first up, I've got Nicky. Where's Nicky? Oh, Nicky, right here. Hello. Hello, Nicky. Hello. Who are you here with? James. Hi. You look familiar. Do I? Are you me? Yes, I think you are. Nicky, how do you know this man? 

Speaker 17: We work together. Where do you work? At an auction house. 

Speaker 4: Well, it must be a posh one. You seem very posh. No, thank you. So you work together at an auction house. I do. What do you do in the auction house? 

Speaker 17: I'm behind the scenes. Marketing. 

Speaker 4: Marketing, that sort of thing. And what do you do, James? 

Speaker 13: I mean, I sell oil paintings, watercolours, prints. 

Speaker 4: OK, you're an auctioneer? Yeah, I'm an auctioneer. Have you been on Flog It? No, I haven't, but I know most of the people who have. Well, why haven't you been on it, James? I've got pride. You do seem a lot like me, James. OK, well, Nicky and James, what have you brought along here? 

Speaker 17: So that's meant to be yourself. So you're auctioning off the missing raspberry. 

Speaker 4: That's a raspberry, is it? That is, yes. The raspberry that's bigger than my head. Yes, that's great. I see, I see. Lovely, lovely. 

Speaker 17: You've got Noel, Alison, Paul and Pro. 

Speaker 4: Oh, wonderful. Gosh, yes, what lovely hair they all have. 

Speaker 17: No, Joe Brown, though. No, Joe Brown. Yeah, I didn't have time. 

Speaker 4: Oh, that's charming, isn't it? Oh, what I will say is, are all the Bake Off people, are they in some sort of quicksand while they're bidding? They're simply disappearing into it. 

They're in a snowstorm, but they still kept bidding on that raspberry. Lovely, lovely. Your mum was meant to come. Your mum was meant to come. Yeah, she's ill. She's ill? 

Oh, no. Is she OK? What's wrong with her? She made you. She made me. 

Yes. Like my own mother. And... Well done, Nicky, well done, James. Lovely to see you and lovely to know what I'd look like wearing glasses. Thank you very much. Now, I've got Chloe with Chloe. Hello, Chloe. Chloe. 

Speaker 18: Chloe, hi, Chloe. Who are you here with today? I'm with my husband Bradley. Husband Bradley. I'm with my friend Gemma. Gemma, hi. Now, Chloe, what have you done here? We've made a chocolate cake in the shape of a yurt. Oh, a yurt? A yurt. 

Speaker 4: Which is like a fancy tent, isn't it? 

Speaker 18: Yeah, it is. When you go glamping. 

Speaker 4: When you go glamping. That's glamorous camping, isn't it? It is. Yes, that's something that people describe me as, actually. 

Speaker 18: LAUGHTER And it's got avocado chocolate ganache. Really? 

Speaker 4: Avocado? Why avocado? Because we're vegan. Oh, I knew you'd let us know eventually. LAUGHTER Oh, vegans can't keep it hidden, can they? No, people know. You're vegan. You're vegan. Come in here. You're vegan cake and you're both vegan. Yes. Lovely to be you, vegan. I'm vegetarian. Vegetarian milkless cows. Woo! LAUGHTER So, why is this important to you, the yurt and everything? 

Speaker 18: We love going glamping and on holiday. We go with our friends. What do you like about glamping so much? It's more adventurous than a hotel, isn't it? 

Speaker 4: Well, is it? It's a tent that has a bed in it. 

Speaker 18: And you have to wear wellies to go to the toilet. 

Speaker 4: That's exciting. Which you don't have to do. You don't know the hotels I stay in. And so you like the fact you have to wear wellies to go to the toilet. OK, and do you like going to these places as well? 

Speaker 3: I quite enjoy it. You quite enjoy it. And that's what you do for a holiday. You just quite enjoy it? Yeah. Bradley, what do you do for a living? I work in tech support. 

Speaker 4: And... OK, thanks, Chloe. Give it up for Chloe and Anne, Bradley and Gemma. OK, where's Crystal? Crystal, Crystal. Over here. Crystal. Crystal. Hello. And Emma. Emma and... Becky. Becky. 

Speaker 17: We co-founded a group called Mothers Rise Up. 

Speaker 4: Mothers Rise Up, what's that all about? It's about bread? 

Speaker 17: No, we're mums, and we're rising up for climate action. 

Speaker 4: Oh, that's very impressive. Mums rising up for climate action. One person clap. And so... Oh, four people clap. More people clap! 

Speaker 17: And so we decided to take two, bring along, like, good clean energy to your party. 

Speaker 4: So, like this, and shredded wheat. 

Speaker 17: There's a solar panel there. There's a solar panel. Lovely. And they're powering a huge lightbulb. And you came on public transport? I walked. You walked? From where? I set off about three days ago. You said... No, you didn't. 

Speaker 4: Very important message. How did you get here? 

Speaker 5: I actually came by car. 

Speaker 4: You came by car. Was it an electric car? No. OK, anyway, so... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 

Speaker 2: Our message is that you don't have to be pure to make statement about climate. 

Speaker 4: I think that's very important. A very important way to address it as well, I appreciate it. So, well done, all of you. Thank you so much for coming along today. 

Thank you. Which ever mode of transport you used. How did you get here? Private jet. 

Tube. All right, thanks. OK, well done. Crystal and friends, thank you. Thank you very much. 

Lovely. OK, now I've got Miles and Gary. Miles and Miles and Gary. Miles and Gary. Gays. 

Yes. Gays! Gay Bakers, everyone. 

Always a winner. And you two are together. Yes, we are. Yes, we are married. You are married. Very good. OK, great. Sorry, no claps, we're not American. Miles, where are you from? 

Speaker 19: Originally from Buckinghamshire. You're from Buckinghamshire. But we live in Newcastle. Oh, you live in Newcastle? Yeah! How did you meet? 

Speaker 8: We met on a course when we were training to be head teachers. You're head teachers? 

Speaker 4: You were. You were head teachers. Why did you stop being head teachers? Were you sacked? No. 

Speaker 8: No. We decided we wanted to do something different, so we set up our own business. Oh, what does that do? We work with schools, helping them to improve, and we do big, choral events with lots of children. Oh, wow! In the North East. 

Speaker 19: Do you sing? We sing in a couple of choirs, do you? Do you? Do you? I conduct a choir. 

Speaker 4: You conduct a choir? Yes. And this space? Oh, yes, the cake. Sorry, I was coming onto the cake, Miles. Sorry, I'm not in assembly at the moment. Yes, we can talk about the cake you made here. Now, what is it, Miles? It's a fully inclusive choir. 

Speaker 19: I was going to say inclusive of what? Because there seem to be some interesting characters. 

Speaker 19: Different skin tones of shoe bun. That's very important. 

Speaker 4: Yes, representation. A rainbow. A rainbow. It's a lot of bottles of champagne, so there's drunks as well. 

Speaker 19: And it's based a little bit on... We have a big bauble party every year. Gary, what are you talking about? So, Gary goes mad at Christmas. 

Speaker 8: I go mad at Christmas and I love Christmas trees. And so, people come round from miles around to see your baubles? 

Speaker 4: Absolutely. You can't put them on the tree. We have lots of trees. Oh, you're those sorts of gays. How many trees do you have? Eleven. Eleven Christmas trees. Of different sizes. Sure, no-one likes a size queen. No. Gary does it all. Gary does all the... 

Speaker 19: I do it all. You're not allowed near it, Miles. No, he isn't. I've never hung a single bauble. Really? That surprises me about you. 

Speaker 4: Well, I'll take these up to the panel. I'm sure they'll enjoy them very much. OK, welcome, everyone. Give it up for Gary and Miles. Gary and Miles, thank you. 

Speaker 1: Thank you. Oh, you are welcome. 

Speaker 20: Thank you. Wow. 

Speaker 4: And I'm delighted to announce that this week's star baker is... Chrisso, Emma and Becky. Wonderful. Wonderful. Very important. Talk about climate change today. Beautiful. But now I have to look sad whilst carrying out the secretly enjoyable task of announcing who will be asked to leave the studio this week. And I'm afraid... It's going to be... Nicky and James, because James is so snooty about flogging. Don't write that. Don't write that sort of behaviour here. 

It's going to be James. Great cake, though. Great cake. I hope those people get out of that quicksand. But the good news is they each leave with a party bag containing an extra slice of wooden spoon. And a huge thank you to all of our studio bakers. APPLAUSE Great. 

Speaker 3: Thanks very much, Tom. Coming up after the break, star of the party, Christy will be here. Back shortly. APPLAUSE Welcome back. I'm here with party animals Scarlett, Neville and Ashling. 

And it's time to meet the woman of the hour. Will you please give it up for Bake Off Quarter Finalist? Christy! APPLAUSE Welcome, Christy. Fantastic to have you here. Thank you. First of all, massive congratulations for making it all the way through to the quarter final. It's a brilliant achievement, isn't it? 

Speaker 5: Yeah. It's such a good achievement for me. Having the four kids and stuff. It's the first sort of thing I've done for myself. And, yeah... 

Speaker 11: Did they watch the show almost like a football match? Like, I'm like, come on, Mum! 

Speaker 5: Mum, can you get me a snack? 

Speaker 3: Well, you seem like a very close bunch this year, but you bonded with one person in particular, and you've actually brought him along tonight. Where are you? Amos. Hello. APPLAUSE Did you two meet before the tent? 

Speaker 7: Yes, we actually met in auditions. Oh, really? It was love at first sight. It was. 

Speaker 5: When we went for the first episode, I got out the car and, literally, Amos had just got out of his car, and we were, like, screaming. I don't know. I'm so excited. And we walked in together. 

Speaker 3: Yeah, it was just a pleasure. It's so nice. Have a sort of pre-friend, isn't it? Are you proud of Christy making it so far? 

Speaker 15: I am so proud of you, seriously. Oh. But, like in the audition, I saw her cake in the audition, and I was shaking in my boots, seriously, guys. Was it that bad? No. It was that good. 

Speaker 3: Thank you for coming along, Amos. It's lovely to see you again. It really is. Thank you. Yeah! APPLAUSE So, Christy, when people recognise you out and about, what sort of thing do they say to you? 

Speaker 5: Do you know what? It's always the same, and it's always, Is Alison as lovely? She seems on the TV in real life. 

Speaker 3: Have you told everyone she's a real cow? LAUGHTER I'm your puss, too, cos we all know she's lovely. 

Speaker 5: I'm just like, no, she's even lovely, and, honestly, she is. She's so warm. 

Speaker 3: Yeah, she's very natural, isn't she? Yeah. 

Speaker 14: Yeah, absolutely. Now, it also turns out that you and the makers are always talking about no. Watch this. 

Speaker 5: You do have great skin, though, I must say. We always talk about it. He does. I think the reason I said that is because that was the week we all found out he turned 50. No way! What? He's 50? Wait, or 40? No, he's 50, yeah. 

Speaker 3: No, he's 50. So, how did you get on with Paul and Prue? 

Speaker 5: Yeah, when I first met Paul... LAUGHTER That wasn't his! Yeah, Paul scared me more than Prue. Prue seemed more soft. Yeah, she's lovely. Paul's lovely, too. I think as the weeks go by and you get to know them, you just feel much more relaxed and at ease, and you're sort of talking to them outside of judging. But during judging, Paul's pretty brutal. 

Speaker 3: Yeah, I think he likes to think that he's intimidating, doesn't he? 

Speaker 5: Yeah, he definitely plays on it, yeah. 

Speaker 3: But because I must say, I'm really enjoying watching you and Paul on your spin-off show, Alien Autopsy. MUSIC PLAYS That was the dreaded eight-plated bread, of course. Yeah. Panna, would you watch a crime drama with Paul as the maverick cop and... He'd be called something like the needy detective. I'd like him to be called the Killsbury Doughboy. LAUGHTER And then you could have Alison as the death sardine. There's been a murder! Ha-ha! 

LAUGHTER Right. Well, let's revisit some of your incredible creations, because they were. Now, in Botanical's week, the judges couldn't resist your maple and pecan spice buns, and you won the lemon and thyme drizzle cake technical. 

And then you seem to really enjoy the whole experience of making your floral dessert showstopper. Well, you might not be... Let's just have a look at that and listen to what your thoughts were on that challenge. Oh, thank God it's over. 

Speaker 5: LAUGHTER Yeah. 

Speaker 3: Yeah, you did your fail, like, yeah, absolutely. You kicked off pastry week by getting a Hollywood handshake for your creamy, leek-and-mushroom picnic pies and dazzled the judges with your autumnal lattice pies, which earned you star baker. Yeah. How was that? 

Speaker 5: APPLAUSE It was amazing. I didn't expect it. 

Speaker 3: You know, you're very modest. 

Speaker 5: You don't want to get your hopes up. Of course, Josh was amazing, and in my mind, it was 100% going to him. So when they say your name, it was just like, yeah, it's such a nice experience, really lovely. 

Speaker 3: And some of your most memorable bakes included your chocolate week showstopper, which looked exquisite. And, of course, your incredible cake week showstopper. In the guise of a duck, look at that, everyone. That is the main thing. 

Speaker 11: I think it's a duck. A real duck. 

Speaker 3: APPLAUSE Here's a bit of that unseen footage from Bread Week, which made me laugh. 

Speaker 5: I don't really know how it's gone. How has it gone? OK. Yeah, it's gone quite well. LAUGHTER That's it. They just do it as I'm told. 

Speaker 3: Absolutely. That's so sweet, though. So, for now, everybody, thank you so much. Christy. CHEERING AND APPLAUSE So, what does every good party week need? Music. Well said. That's brilliant. LAUGHTER Very well done. And, supplying tonight's dance floor fillers, will you please welcome Woohoo! It's the Mary Arches, everyone. APPLAUSE Now, the Mary Arches are going to put their spin on some classic party songs. 

You lot shout out when you think you know what they're playing. OK, is that makes sense? Yes! Right, so, Mary Arches, are you ready? Yeah! All right, take it away. Shout out to the bear. OK, one, two, three. WHISTLE BLOWS Whitney Houston, all the way! 

Speaker 7: CHEERING That's the best thing you've got at night, everyone. Let's see. 

Speaker 3: MUSIC PLAYS CHEERING APPLAUSE OK, are you ready for your next one? Yeah. Take it away. MUSIC PLAYS WHISTLE BLOWS WHISTLE BLOWS Any out there? 

Speaker 10: Anyone? Is it upside your head? 

Speaker 3: LAUGHTER I really wish it was, but no, it's not. All right, let's find out. Off you go, then. MUSIC PLAYS APPLAUSE That was very powerful. OK, this is the last one. Oh, my God. So, listen really carefully. What do you think this is? MUSIC PLAYS Oh, my God! 

Speaker 20: Yes! That's correct. It was, come on, I need. Come on, I need. Come on, I need. I love you, me. Everything. 

Speaker 3: MUSIC PLAYS OK, come on, I need by Texas Midnight Riders. And thank you very much. Give it up for the Mary Archies, then. CHEERING APPLAUSE Now, Christy, I believe that you can complete a Rubik's Cube in under four minutes. I can. But sadly, we haven't got the time for that. LAUGHTER But stay with us, cos Tom is on his way with a special gift for you. See you in a bit, guys. CHEERING AND APPLAUSE Welcome back. 

We're all here. Scarlett, Nabil, Ashling and Christy. OK, who fancies a game of Artie Party? APPLAUSE So, Scarlett, right, you've got a card with some party words and phrases on it, and all you need to do is draw them, and the rest of the panel and Christy will... Guess what they are. You can't use any letters or symbols, OK? 

Speaker 10: But I can draw the item. Yeah. 

Speaker 3: All right, Scarlett, your time starts now. A balloon. Yeah! Well done. So that's number one. Well done for wiping your own board. 

Speaker 11: Beautiful artist, Scarlett, I have to say. I really saw that balloon. 

Speaker 10: I've got an A star at Textiles. Get on with it. 

Speaker 3: Um... Number two, yeah. Not A number two, but... 

Speaker 20: A hole. Down a hole. Stone skimming. Are you doing the same one as I've done? 

Speaker 12: Yeah! Is that a T-cup, am I...? 

Speaker 20: Er... Falling out of a hole. Frisbees. Falling out of... Tumbling out of a hole. Air hole. Definitely hole, I cut. All right, Scarlett, what is it? The sausage roll. 

Speaker 6: LAUGHTER It's a sausage roll. 

Speaker 11: Why did you nod at me every time I said a hole? Cos it grabs the roll. 

Speaker 3: I genuinely thought you were doing the wrong one. And your next one. 

Speaker 20: Moose Christmas reindeer. Roondi. Opposite of him. Moose hunter. Spectacled. Yeah! APPLAUSE And your final one, number ten. 

Speaker 11: One second. The Tate Britain. Scarlett Moffat exhibition. I'm not a part of the big... Yes, Will Taken! Yay! This right, erm... 

Speaker 4: Vape. Vaping. 

Speaker 11: Er... Er... Er... Foghorn. Party poppers. Yay! 

Speaker 3: APPLAUSE Scarlett, you've done a party popper. I think you've got it slightly wrong. Look at the card again. Party pooper. Lots of party poppers you've had! 

Speaker 12: I'm glad you didn't have to draw that. Hi! 

Speaker 3: Yes, that's absolutely well done. APPLAUSE OK, Christy, we're going to ask the panel now to tell us what they loved about watching you on Bake Off Scarlett. Everything. 

Speaker 10: And I really hope that you take some self-confidence from this because watching you, like, I just feel like sometimes you're so hard on yourself, but you made it to the quarterfinals, like, you're amazing, so I hope that you take that with you. And yeah, you're just wonderful. Aw, thank you. Yeah, yeah. APPLAUSE Vaping. 

Speaker 12: As someone who is naturally very anxious, like, I always doubt myself. I enjoyed watching someone like me overcome that. You were fantastic, and I'm sure you make a lot of people happy that you don't even know about. APPLAUSE That's great. 

Speaker 11: Not for me, sorry. LAUGHTER You know what I loved? I loved that you openly said, like, you hadn't done anything for yourself. And I think so many people who you do get motherhood and be a joy and stuff, but that it's not your only purpose and that to do something for yourself is so important. And to come out of those years going, actually, I have a little ambition for myself and it becomes a big one and here you are. So I think that's usually important. Thank you. APPLAUSE I'm excited. 

Speaker 3: OK, thanks very much, everyone. And now here comes Tom and his trolley. 

Speaker 4: APPLAUSE Oh, my, Gryffie. Will you tell us what you're going to take away from your time on Bake Off? 

Speaker 5: Just to believe in myself more and just all my lovely baking family. 

Speaker 4: Oh, well, that's another thing to say. And here's what I think. LAUGHTER Christy, you are one hell of a baker. I understand your need for perfection, of course. I'm just the same. Look at my hair. 

Christy, you make candy canes out of cheese straws in a tent. And not many people can say that, perhaps for obvious reasons. You were brilliant on this year's Bake Off and you should be so proud of yourself. Just don't you forget it. We're all very, very proud of you here. So remember that. Thank you. 

Speaker 3: APPLAUSE Thanks, Tom. And now, Christy, let's all enjoy a look back at your time in the tent. 

Speaker 5: I'm trying to just take a look and enjoy it. 

Speaker 9: I think it looks really appetising. 

Speaker 2: Christy, you need my bestie, though. 

Speaker 7: Wow. They look impressive inside. I'll tell you that now. You have. Beautifully moist inside and crispy. So what I will do... Thank you. 

Speaker 9: Just my instinct, yeah. The winner is this one, Christy. Perfect. Oh, my gosh. I think you need to do it again. Shanaf. You're lovely. Oh, that's gorgeous, yeah. It looks wonderful. 

Speaker 7: It's perfect, isn't it? They're beautiful. I've never had French Pan with Basby in it before. That's amazing. I love that. 

Speaker 1: This week's star baker is Christy. 

Speaker 5: It's been like a life journey. You know, I've done really well. 

Speaker 7: I love that. Tastes great. Star baker, handshake. 

Speaker 5: Can these things mean the world to me? Go, go! I'm so proud of myself. 

Speaker 3: APPLAUSE So, Tom, if you could reveal all... APPLAUSE So, Christy, they are with your willing lemon and thyme drizzle cake, beautiful chocolate box, and Mr Holly was favourite picnic pies. 

Christy, everybody. CHEERING So, that's it for this week. A big thank you to Tom, to Christy, to the Mary Archies, all our studio bakers, and to our celebrity panel, Scarlett Moffat, Nabil Abdul Rashid, and Ashling B, see you same time next week for the Bake Off Semi-Final. Goodbye. 

Speaker 1: Are you a star baker in the making? If you'd like to apply for the next series of Bake Off, visit Channel4.com or would slash take part. 

Speaker 13: Qualifications in the bag, but England still need a point to make sure of topping the group. Full coverage as Malta come to Wembley live from 7 o'clock tomorrow, which means that GoverBox will be on a bit later than usual at 10 o'clock. We're next tonight, Taskmasters keeping up with the times, with Alex's very own VAR system. Although the fact he's called it the Dream Crusher doesn't bode well, I reckon. 

Speaker 6: APPLAUSE MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC 