Speaker 1: Previously on Great Chocolate Showdown. Let's get down to it. Nine Home Bakers raced their chocolate bar game. The pressure is on. Tim's berry nougat chocolate bear was the judge's favorite, bar none. 

Speaker 2: Your teddy is gorgeous. 

Speaker 1: Granting him the coveted golden whisk. In the elimination challenge, the bakers tried to shred the competition with a cheese and chocolate dessert. 

Speaker 3: Some cheese, some chocolate, some anxiety. 

Speaker 1: Allie's dark chocolate manchego Paris Breast earned her the win. Nice work. Leaving Donna and Ashley in jeopardy. I did not do my... Donna's chocolate and breed tartlet sent her home. Now only eight bakers remain on the road to sweet success. 

Speaker 3: Come on guys, let's keep going. You got it. 

Speaker 4: The last elimination challenge, I was in the top two and it felt great. I am learning so much in this competition. 

Speaker 3: So far I'm 0 for 2 in technique tests. I plan on really focusing on what they have to teach us. I'm ready to win this. 

Speaker 2: Hello bakers. Now you've all shown us some impressive chocolate baking. But to learn more skills that will sweeten your dessert game. And if you pay attention, this next technique test will be as easy as pie. Oh. Pie. 

Speaker 5: Bakers. Today I'm going to show you how to make one of the most beloved desserts. The pie. 

Speaker 6: I'm nervous because I have never, ever made a pie before. 

Speaker 5: I have my chilled pieces of dough. It's time to roll in line our pie shell. Start in small, don't try and push the dough in one direction, one way. Because it will spring back and you'll find it changes its shape once it fakes. So little motions, rotate. If you're nervous about lifting up your pie dough, you can roll it over the pin if you wish. Bring the plate to the dough and then unroll it in place. Now we want to create a polished edge to our pie pastry. I'm securing the pastry onto my pie plate so then it won't go anywhere. 

Your oven should be preheated to 375 Fahrenheit and you bake it for 20 minutes. Here is our baked pie shell out of the oven. So this filling has been pre-cooked and chilled down. So it's ready to go into my pie shell. Now this pie, we know it's going to be delicious, but it's lacking a little something. 

We need you to captivate us with a beautiful decorated top. I'm going to show you how to create a couple of simple pastry rosettes. You take four discs of pastry and you want to overlap them. You start from once when you cut it in half, open up your petals and you've got lovely little rosettes. 

Speaker 7: Chef Anna's pie decorations are amazing. She has such an attention for detail. Her creativeness is out of this world. 

Speaker 5: Bakers, it does seem to me there's something missing. Chocolate! Thank you! We have to see you temper some chocolate for the top decor of your pie. We want a piece of pie art. We ate chocolatey pie with a colorful, creative top. Become Picasso's of pastry as you serve us some delicious slices of pie art. 

Speaker 8: You'll be judged on originality, presentation, taste, and in this test, your pie technique. 

Speaker 2: The three bakers who present us with the most impressive pies will be granted sweet safety. Oh! And will not have to bake in the chocolate elimination challenge. Yes! And Tim, remember there are only four challenges left. You use your golden whisk. 

Speaker 8: Bakers, the pantry is fully stocked with the finest chocolate and ingredients. You'll have two and a half hours to complete your pies. Ready? 

Speaker 2: Steady? Get your sweet on! 

Speaker 9: We have not much chocolate at the top. Take what I need, take what I need. 

Speaker 5: This technique test is just so much fun. In the pie art, it's creative, it's expressive, but before the bakers do anything else, they need to get their pie and resting. Chilling in the fridge to get in the pie delt, time to relax. While that's happening, they can make their filling or other components. 

Speaker 9: I'm absolutely comfortable with making pies. Going into this technique test, my strategy is to get my pie crust and refrigerate as quick as possible. I'm making a dark chocolate raspberry cream pie with maple walnuts in. Oh, maple walnuts? Yes. That sounds good. Walnuts and chocolate go very well together. 

Speaker 10: I'm putting things that I like. I am making a chocolate raspberry basil pie. Basil is one of my favorite herbs and I love raspberries, so why not combine them two? I just grabbed a grapefruit thinking it was an orange. But you know, there's always a couple of hiccups when you're baking. 

Speaker 9: I am making a Mississippi mud pie. One, because I'm from Mississippi. And second, because it has a lot of chocolate in the pie. Normally, I'm a cookess and cake girl. I just have to watch the clock and make sure I get everything done in time. What are you making? Chocolate pastry cream. 

Speaker 6: Oh my God, it sounds like a dream. 

Speaker 9: This smells really, really good. 

Speaker 3: I'm really so focused. 

Speaker 8: Bakers, two hours left. 

Speaker 3: That's why I have one nephew and five nieces, all of whom are basically little monkeys. So I want this pie to be inviting, fun, and full of color. I'm making a chocolate peanut butter banana monkey pie. 

It'd be really nice for a change for the judges to actually evaluate one of my technique tests. I move on to my pastry cream. Once this pastry cream is done, it's going to have to sit in the fridge so it can firm up. So I'm just making sure all the chocolate is melted. 

Speaker 11: Get in my pie, duh. So for this technique test, I am making a dark chocolate bourbon pie. Come on, summer. Summer! I'm choosing dark chocolate because it's going to play really well with the bourbon. A few more minutes on my pie crust. We should be ready to work. 

Speaker 5: For perfect pie dough, you don't need to chill it for too long. Start rolling. 

Speaker 7: I'm just trying to shape my pie dough into my pie pan. 

Speaker 5: I see a lot of baking pots on the stove. They have to be constantly multitasking. 

Speaker 10: Does anybody have the Dutch cocoa? I do. Yes, friend, down the street. There you go. Thank you. I know brownies don't necessarily go with pies, but I'm making the pie that I want to eat, and I'm going to put that brownie in the crust. I've made my sauce. I'm making my milk chocolate mousse now, and I'm going to get started decorating and working on my pie. I smell a burning crust. 

Speaker 3: Is it yours? Yeah, everyone check your oven. Something's definitely burning. Is it mine? I don't think so. Is it yours? No, I just took mine out and popped it back in. Me too. 

Speaker 9: That's my stuff burning. My walnuts are burnt. 

Speaker 1: Mike! My walnuts are burnt. These walnuts are the key to my dessert. I forgot they were in the oven. I'll make another batch. These walnuts give the pie some crunch, and it gives it a little bit of sweet for the better chocolate. 

Speaker 7: I'm pretty excited about this challenge with the pie. 

Speaker 5: Once their pie shells are in the oven, then our bakers can fill the oven. I'm going to focus on decor. This technique test is as much about time management as it is pastry execution. 

Speaker 11: In college I played football, and our mascot was the dragons. So I'm choosing to make a dragon for my pie art. 

Speaker 9: I'm very artistic and I love to draw, and one of my favorite things growing up was watching mermaid movies. So I'm making a Mississippi mermaid mud pie. We got some mermaid tails going on. Bakers, you have one hour left. 

Speaker 10: One hour left. Hello! 

Speaker 5: Our bakers have a lot of little decisions to make in terms of how they're going to compose their pie art on top. I did individual pieces. You could easily use a circle of pastry, add things to it, and then bake the whole thing. 

Speaker 4: This is a snow globe. When I was younger, I used to collect snow globes. I wanted to be really Christmassy. When the judges look at my pie, I would really like them to envision snow globes and the magic of winter. There will be a Christmas tree and some foley and the shape of a snow globe. I still have all this stuff I have to paint. 

Speaker 7: Doesn't look orange. Time is running out and I need to get my pie decorations as well as my tempered chocolate onto the pie. Anybody have any leaf cutouts? 

Speaker 4: I do. You want some? I do. Here you go. I didn't use that one. 

Speaker 10: I love you all. So my inspiration for this pie is my evening walks that I take every night. I look at the leaves and the beautiful flowers growing and I am going to put that on top of my pie. 

Speaker 6: Okay, she's not too bad. It's time to start putting my chocolate pieces onto my pie. I've never done it. In the prairies, we have the most beautiful sunsets and the most beautiful lakes you could ever possibly imagine. I am hoping that the judges see a bit of home. So I also cut out an orange t-shirt. I wear the orange pin on my apron every day to honor my people, our history. So my pie is dedicated to all of the residential school survivors out there to hopefully bring awareness to it. 

Speaker 8: It's almost time for pie. 15 minutes left, Bakers. 

Speaker 3: Come on, guys. Let's keep going. Every time you're trying to finish line, that's when things really go wrong for me. I'm not munking around. Oh, wow. 

Speaker 11: This looks horrible. This is not looking like a dragon's face. It's looking more like a wounded animal. 

Speaker 8: We're going out of time. Five minutes left, Bakers. Let's go. Come on, I'll make it. And it's a success. 

Speaker 10: There's five minutes left to this pie challenge and I'm arranging my footprints, my leaves and my flowers all the way around, hoping that the judges will see that it's me taking a walk through nature. Time is going to be a crunch, but I got this. Come on, come on, come on. 

Speaker 3: I don't want to jinx myself, but I feel like things are going really well. 

Speaker 5: Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. 

Speaker 2: Time's up. Pie pie. 

Speaker 6: Good job. Good job, Ellie. This pie tastes like home and it looks like home. 

Speaker 10: I'm doing a walk through nature on my first pie ever. This has got to impress the judges. 

Speaker 5: You did it. But now we have to come around and take a closer look because we will only be tasting five of your desserts. 

Speaker 2: Tim, the question on everyone's mind, would you like to use your golden whisk? 

Speaker 11: At this point, it's very tempting to use this golden whisk. I can move ahead without any issues. I have thought about it long and hard and I'm going to keep fighting. I'm going to hold on to the whisk. 

Speaker 2: In that case, there are still three spots for me to safety. 

Speaker 3: So there's only five of us that are going to be tasted this time around. That means my chances are even slimmer than the last two technique tests. 

Speaker 5: Bakers, we asked you to create an eye-catching pie. Now taste your desserts. Mike, you're up first. Please bring us your pie. 

Speaker 3: I have five nieces and one nephew, so I thought I would celebrate my little monkeys. So I present to you a chocolate, peanut butter, banana, monkey pie. 

Speaker 5: I was initially drawn to the bananas. You hit the color quite well. Your pie crust looks a touch uneven. It was probably rolled a little too much in one direction. OK. Shall we give it a taste? Yes, please. 

Speaker 8: Mike, you nailed the chocolate. Your pastry cream was bitter, but because of the sweetness of the banana and the peanut butter butter cream, it all balanced beautifully. Your chocolate looks tempered. That's just bananas. Nice work, Mike. Thank you. 

Speaker 3: I have successfully tempered chocolate for the first time. I could not be happier right now. Please bring us your pie. 

Speaker 6: I made a white chocolate, Saskatoon Berry Sun Pie. My pie art is home in Green Lakes, Saskatchewan. In Canada, I also added an orange t-shirt for all residential school survivors. 

Speaker 5: And that's why you wear the orange pin. Wear it every day. To have that connect to you so personally, I think is beautiful. That is a striking pie. Thank you so much for sharing it with us. You created such a beautiful, large swatter. That braid came together beautifully. That's a fantastic use of the pie pastry. Thank you. 

Speaker 8: Allie, I love your chocolate work. Thank you. The detail, nice clean lines. Your chocolate is beautifully tempered. You hear it. 

Speaker 5: In your pie pastry, you achieved flakiness. It is cooked all the way through. Allie, thank you so much. Well done. Thanks. And now we'd like to try Charlie's Pie creation. 

Speaker 10: I made a chocolate raspberry basil outdoor pie. So every day I take a walk past yards with beautiful flowers, leaves on trees. You have my little feet. That's the path that I'm taking on the pie. 

Speaker 5: We were drawn to your pie because of the color and the texture well delivered. 

Speaker 2: I don't think your footsteps were clear, whether they were fish. 

Speaker 5: The detailing was hard to read. Your flowers and leaves are an example of when pastry dough has either been over rolled or not allowed enough time to rest. When it baked, it contracted. Okay. Thank you. 

Speaker 2: Charlie, the flavor was there for me. The use of the almonds, of course, you need something that strong, that powerful to match with the raspberry. 

Speaker 5: The brownie was so moist against the raspberry flavors. Great combination. Thank you. The next dessert we'd like to try belongs to... Meredith. Please bring us your pie. 

Speaker 4: When I was younger, I used to collect snow globes. So I made a peppermint mocha snow globe pie. And I really wanted it to be like a winter wonderland. 

Speaker 5: Your small snowflakes have very fine detail. So that tells me you worked your pie at the same time. The pie pastry on top is under baked. And the rest we shall see when we slice into it. 

Speaker 8: Meredith, when I taste your dessert, it's unbelievable. Your pastry cream, it's sharp in chocolate. You're going to ask the mocha flavor in there really takes on that chocolate flavor. It's like drinking an actual mocha. That's what I was going for. Now you need to work on the details on the outside. You just got to push yourself. You're looking chocolate decor, tempered chocolate. Thank you so much. Thank you. 

Speaker 5: Only one pie left to taste. And that pie belongs to... Only one pie left to taste. And that pie belongs to Emma. 

Speaker 7: The theme of my pie is the season of fall. I made a chocolate caramel pecan fall pie. 

Speaker 5: I love the color work and the delicacy of your leaves, but we are seeing a lot of the plain filling. Many pies have a full second crust, so it just would have added volume to see double the amount of leaves to make a statement. 

Speaker 8: Emma, the flavor was awesome. The caramel pecan crunch allowed the dark chocolate ganache and the milk chocolate to shine. That salt drew out the flavor. But the decor, even though you did give us chocolate, that to me is like an afterthought. 

Speaker 5: Bakers, we asked you to tap into your creative side and make us a piece of pie art. 

Speaker 2: Some of you presented pies that were as pretty as pictures, but a few of you need to be less hasty with your pastry. 

Speaker 8: Emma and Mike, please step forward. The three of you had our favorite desserts of this challenge well done. 

Speaker 5: But there was one baker that presented a pie that was both striking and scrumptious. And that dessert belongs to Ali. 

Speaker 6: This is two best dishes in a row for me, and I am on cloud nine. 

Speaker 2: Mr. The three of you, please go take a seat in sweet safety. Don't mind if I do. 

Speaker 8: That means the rest of you must bake in the upcoming chocolate elimination challenge that will send one of you home. Bakers, by now you know we love big flavor. And striking the right balance of flavor is more than just a matter of taste. 

Speaker 9: Why is there a big tongue in the middle of the kitchen? 

Speaker 8: We're sliding in to taste sensations. 

Speaker 5: For your next chocolate elimination challenge, we want you to create a plated chocolate dessert that showcases one of the basic flavor sensations. Salty, sour, bitter, savory, and since all desserts are sweet, we've replaced sweet with spicy. 

Speaker 2: To find out which taste sensation will be your inspiration, ride on our flavor slide. Meredith, you're up first. Ooh! Oh! Sour! Tim. Look out, Malin! Spicy. Ashley. Bitter. Kristen. Savory. Charlie. 

Speaker 10: So not sliding. Salty. 

Speaker 5: Bakers, understanding how to combine and balance flavors in baking is essential. Deliver us a plated dessert that celebrates sensation and, of course, chocolate. 

Speaker 8: The pantry is fully stocked with the finest ingredients. You have two hours to complete your desserts. 

Speaker 2: The baker who presents us with our least favorite dessert will be going home. Ready? Steady? Get your chocolate on. All right, Charles, come on. 

Speaker 4: Get some of these. Get some of these. The taste sensation that I'm going to be showcasing is sour. Glug. When I hear sour, the first thing I think about is sour cherries from my mom's cherry tree. I'm soaking these sour cherries in raspberry liqueur. For this chocolate elimination challenge, I am making a chocolate buttermilk cake with sour cherry filling and the balsamic caramel. Ooh! Meredith! 

Speaker 9: That is so good! It's so strong! 

Speaker 5: I love that our chocolate elimination challenge is about flavor sensations. 

Speaker 8: Chocolate is such a unique flavor. You can pair almost anything with it. 

Speaker 5: We want our bakers to find the balance between the chocolate flavor and that flavor sensation. 

Speaker 11: So I got spicy. I love spicy. And when I did spicy the first time, I won Sweet Safety. I'm making a spicy dark chocolate lava cake with candy ginger chocolate bark. So I'm going to add some chili powder to the lava cake, and I'm going to finish it off with a little bit of cayenne pepper. Got to bring the heat, baby. 

Speaker 8: I want to get the sweetness, and then at the end, I want to feel the heat. I don't want that heat right in the beginning because it will ruin my palate. 

Speaker 11: Hopefully I can hold on to this gold. My whole strategy is built on taking risk. I like to experiment with really big flavors, and if not, don't do well. I have the golden whisk. I can move forward in the competition without a hesitation. Oh, I like that. 

Speaker 9: Oh, my gosh, I have bitter. What am I going to do with this? What are you making? I'm right now about to make my coffee chocolate mousse. Oh, that sounds good. For this elimination challenge, I'm making a chocolate coffee mousse tart with grapefruit ganache. 

A couple of minutes before for that dough. The coffee extract is very strong. In order to make it taste good, you have to add sweet. So that's where the chocolate comes in. 

Speaker 8: One hour and 30 minutes left, Bakers. Come on in, Bakers! 

Speaker 10: What ingredients are you using, Kristen? 

Speaker 9: Miso and soy sauce. Oh, miso and soy sauce? Yep. I used to work at an Asian bistro, so I'm familiar with the flavors. My plan is to send miso brownie with a soy sauce caramel. So it's a sweet and savory combination. 

Speaker 2: Kristen has got soy sauce and miso paste. 

Speaker 8: That could be interesting, but that could also... Because there's a lot of salt in both of those. 

Speaker 9: I know how to cook savory main courses, but as savory dessert, I'm not so sure about them. Just got to stay focused and do what I can. Kristen doing things over here. Don't hype me up too much. 

Speaker 10: So coming in to this elimination challenge, I'm pretty good with salt. Now, there are some salts in the pantry that I've never seen or heard of. Blur de sel, which is a fancy French sea salt. And I've never used pretzel salt before. 

Speaker 8: I always found when cooking with chocolate and salt, we're using the salt as the flavor of the chocolate. 

Speaker 10: It's fun picking all these salts, but it's also scary because I do not want to give too salty. I am making a chocolate cake with a mango ganache and a pretzel salt nut crumble. 

Speaker 6: Let's go, Charlie! Thank you. 

Speaker 9: Right now, I'm working on my tart, though, about to roll it out and put it in the oven. My goal is to get this tart golden brown, nice and soft, and done. To the oven. So next, for the grapefruit ganache, I shaved some grapefruit in there. And the grapefruit has a powerful, bitter flavor. There we go. 

Speaker 10: That was just some mango puree. So I'm making a mango ganache, and it's going to go on top of my chocolate cake. This ganache has the right amount of salt to bring out that natural sweetness in your chocolate. 

Speaker 4: Just cleaning up a little so I can focus. As I'm making my caramel, I think it's pretty thin, so I heated up some more. Next, I take my cakes out of the oven. They are not elegant or pretty. I'm not going to plate these cakes, so... All right. 

I don't like doing those things. These cakes won't come out of the mold. I am literally freaking out. I'm not having good luck with hands today. There is a lot of pressure today. I'm not ready to go home. I'm not having good luck with hands today. I can't use these cakes because they are not elegant or pretty. 

Okay. I give up on making this cake, so I'm just going to make a flat one. In this elimination challenge, we have to make a showcase a key taste sensation. I have more batter, so instead of the cake pans, I'm just going to plate safe and put them on a sheet pan. And it should make my cakes look better. 

Speaker 5: I wonder if it was the batter itself or her treatment of the pan. 

Speaker 2: I don't know that there's enough time for this. At the end of this elimination challenge, one of these bakers will be going home. 

Speaker 10: So this is my pistachio hazelnut with a little pretzel sauce. For this salt and nut crumble, I am using a hefty teaspoon of pretzel salt. I give the nut crumble a taste, and I'm a little bit salty. If you're used to much salt, there's no going back. I'm just preying my dessert. It's not overly salty. And then I think I should add some whipped cream. The judges are getting too much salt. They can take a small, different whipped cream to break up some of that salty flavor. 

Speaker 11: Chocolate spread out. So now I'm going to show off my chocolate skills. I'm going to make a three-layer chocolate bark with almonds and candy ginger. The good thing about candy ginger, it kind of gives you a sweet but spicy flavor. Next, I want to make a chocolate garnish. So what I'm going for is an abstract lava feel. I am no artist. To me, it kind of looks like a flower. Come behind you. Come behind you, too. 

Speaker 9: Now, I'll start on my walnuts. I have a lot going on right now, but I know I have to make time to get the judges an extra crunch with my dessert, so I start to make caramelized walnuts. Hopefully my chocolate is in temperate today. I haven't had my old snap moment from Chef Steve, and I really want that. Just going to keep thinking positive. 

Speaker 4: The caramel tastes great. I still taste the balsamic. My cake is made. I'm about to temper chocolate. Now the curls to make it look like black horse cake. 

Speaker 3: She cute, Meredith. She cute. 

Speaker 10: Temper friend. To make this tempered chocolate into a garnish, I just sprinkle the flow of the cell over the chocolate. It's a salty salt, but it's like a good salty. It's fun picking all these salts, but it's also scary because they all have to work together. 

Speaker 9: 20 minutes, you guys. Sometimes I make the wildest dessert, but I want to give the judges what they want, and that's a more refined plate. Just in case the miso is now outstanding, I want to add the glaze for just the extra touch. Goo it. This dessert is going to be amazing. On top of my brownie, I'm going to put my miso glaze caramelized walnuts. I'm a little nervous. 

Speaker 11: I need to break this up. My idea for this dessert is to place my lava cake front and center. Next, I'm going to sit the mousse right next to it, and I'm going to divide it by the chocolate bar. 

Speaker 4: I think I did overtook my caramel a little bit. I don't want to give up on this caramel because it has my sour and balsamic vinegar. It's time to start assembling my plate. Buttfakers! 

Speaker 9: This plated dessert, I'm putting different colors. I'm putting different flavors. I'm making my tart have height. I'm making this plate stand out. 

Speaker 10: I've got to get moving, ready to plate. I want it to look like a piece of art hanging in a museum. Good job, everybody. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. I need some color up here. 

Speaker 5: Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Big A! 

Speaker 10: Woo! We have finished our bake, and I just completed my plated dessert. And it looks amazing. 

Speaker 9: I'm so excited. I really made something that I've never made before, and it looks good. I'm happy about it. 

Speaker 8: Well done, bakers. Tim, will you be using your golden whisk? 

Speaker 11: Should I use the golden whisk? If I do use it, I'll get the bake again. If I don't, there's a chance I could go home. I think I'm going to take a whisk and save my golden whisk. I strongly believe that I don't have the worst dessert here. 

Speaker 8: Okay, bakers, now it's time to taste your desserts. 

Speaker 5: Bakers, we asked you to create a chocolate dessert that highlights a selected taste sensation. Charlie, please bring us your dessert. 

Speaker 10: I chose salty, and this is a chocolate cake with a mango ganache and a pretzelsauce nut crumble. 

Speaker 5: A refined plating, but I think you would have had time to put your whipped cream in a piping bag, give it a pipe that would match the overall look of the dessert. Thank you. 

Speaker 2: Charlie, I've got to be honest, I didn't like your dessert. I loved your dessert. You managed to highlight not just salt but mango and chocolate all at once. 

Speaker 5: Thank you. I did. Salt came through in your pretzel nut mix. So did you temper the chocolate? 

Speaker 8: Oh snap, Charlie, you did. Charlie tempered the chocolate. 

Speaker 10: I think this may be the best critique I received on a dessert. 

Speaker 5: Charlie, thank you so much. Thank you. Meredith, please bring us your dessert. 

Speaker 4: I picked sour. I made a chocolate buttermilk cake with a sour cherry filling and a balsamic caramel. 

Speaker 5: Chocolate cake? Do you know what this reminds me of? Black Forest cake. I would have called it that. To have a little more open space around your dessert allows us to focus on what you want us to see. 

Speaker 8: Meredith, it's a simple cake. I got that intense hit of chocolate, but I missed out on the sour. I had one sour cherry, but it's not enough. Meredith, thank you so much. 

Speaker 4: Thank you. After having problems with my caramel, my cake wasn't sour enough. Ashley. 

Speaker 9: I got bitter. Today I made you a chocolate coffee mousse tart with a grapefruit ganache. 

Speaker 5: You've got two different styles of piping on one side. You've got dots on the other. Something should be pulled away. It's a bit distracting. I saw your frustration when you pulled your tart shell out of the oven and it had sunk. Sweet dough, you don't have to line bake, but a pastry like this without sugar or egg in it, you must. 

Speaker 8: Your chocolate coffee mousse had a punch of coffee. You got the bitter and it had the chocolate. The bitter grapefruit and chocolate ganache, I got the bitter in it, but there wasn't enough of it. 

Speaker 5: Did you try each component of your dessert? I did. And did you try a biteful together? I didn't try a biteful together. Next up, we'll be trying everything together. The bitter was there. I was just craving a little more of it. Thank you so much. 

Speaker 9: I'm a little nervous about my tart. Kristen. I agree. So I made a miso brownie with a soy sauce caramel. And my garnish is milk chocolate. 

Speaker 5: I have to say, the plating is lovely. You have texture with your different colors and pipings. Thank you. 

Speaker 2: Kristen, you bring a lot to every dessert, except now, your tight minute. Restraint was the key element here. 

Speaker 5: You knew. Soy sauce. Yeah, that fermented flavor. And it's the soy caramel on the place. I did get a few crumbs. Crumbs and brownies don't go together. Black cocoa can dry things out a little bit because of the reduced fat content. But that's all I got. Thank you. 

Speaker 8: Kristen, what do you think? 

Speaker 9: Maybe it's too thin, so you know, snap. Yeah. Oh, no. Oh, snap! Oh, snap! Wait a minute. 

Speaker 8: Amazing job. Thank you. 

Speaker 11: Tim. I picked spicy. I present to you a spicy dark chocolate lava cake with candy ginger chocolate bark. 

Speaker 5: Is there a reason you opted for a flower as a garnish? 

Speaker 11: That's not really supposed to be a flower. It's kind of like lava coming out of a volcano. It looked better in my head. 

Speaker 5: Because you have a rather dramatic garnish, I think a bigger plate would let the lava cake be the star. What is our heat tolerance supposed to be here? 

Speaker 11: You know, it may blow you outside, so I don't know. All right. 

Speaker 2: Tim, I liked your dessert. The intensity of your chocolate flavor really hits you. And the heat also hits you. Well done. 

Speaker 5: Thank you. My favorite spice element on your plate was the candy ginger. That complex heat with the dark chocolate was sophisticated. I love the ginger. 

Speaker 8: All right, Tim, when you have tempered chocolate garnishes and you have a warm dessert, any form of heat will take it out of temper. Tim, thank you so much. Thank you. 

Speaker 11: I'm a little worried about my new whisk. Instead of taking a whisk, I should have went on and used the whisk. 

Speaker 5: TEn Bakers, we asked you to create a chocolate dessert celebrating a flavor sensation. 

Speaker 8: Tim, please step forward. You are safe. Please go join your fellow bakers. 

Speaker 11: This is sweet golden whisk. Charlie, Kristen, please step forward. 

Speaker 2: The two of you have the best desserts of this challenge. 

Speaker 5: But there was one dessert that struck a harmonious balance between chocolate and bold taste. 

Speaker 9: Kristen. You bet a gal here. And a little lad. Are you kidding me? 

Speaker 5: Proud of myself. Your miso brownie was a savory starlet. Please go join your fellow bakers. 

Speaker 2: Ashley and Meredith, unfortunately, your desserts were not as successful. 

Speaker 8: Ashley, you took us to Flavortown with that coffee mousse. However, that beautiful balance was missing completely in other components of your dessert. 

Speaker 2: Meredith, you gave us a cake that was utterly delicious. But what got lost even we asked for? 

Speaker 5: Unfortunately, one of you must leave this kitchen. The baker who is going home is Meredith. Meredith. Isn't it good? That means, Ashley, you are safe. Meredith, saying goodbye to such a passionate baker is never easy, especially when they're as tall. Your family will be so proud of what you've accomplished in this kitchen. 

Speaker 4: I've had so much fun. And I'm going to miss you guys. 

Speaker 5: Well, don't leave her standing there. Come on over. 

Speaker 4: I'm going to miss you. You guys are so cool. I'm so proud of all of you. Proud of you. Love you, Meredith. I'm proud of everything I did here. And I'm so happy to have met everyone. And I'm really going to miss them. I can't wait to show my family everything I've learned. 

Speaker 1: Next time on Great Chocolate Showdown. 

Speaker 9: It's very sticky, and I really don't like it. 

Speaker 1: Fruit is on the menu. A delicious patte de frie. This is a lot. This is so shiny. If the elimination challenge, the competition gets juicy. My heart is beating like a thousand miles a minute. And the homemakers feel the squeeze. 

Speaker 2: Very ugly. I'm really worried for her. Too big. 

Speaker 6: Not good. 