nd nd nd nd Cal, 

Speaker 1: what are you doing? I'm just trying to decide which one's the best. Is it milk, dark, or what? 

Speaker 2: Oh, it's white, definitely. Hey. No, you're right. It's dark. Dark is good. Really? No, milk. I always forget it's milk is always the classic. That was with chocolate. 

Speaker 1: The light. The sweet bit. It was chocolate weak. 

Speaker 2: Last week... Oh, they look beautiful. ..our taste buds travelled the world in International Week. 

Speaker 3: We are going on a taste bud holiday today. 

Speaker 2: It was Laura's macaroon masterpiece that won her the title of Star Baker. 

Speaker 4: This has to be the best bake you've done so far. Thank you so much. Well done. 

Speaker 2: And we said farewell to Neil. 

Speaker 3: The things that I've achieved here, I never thought would have actually been possible. 

Speaker 1: This week, the four remaining bakers have reached the semifinals. 

Speaker 5: I can't believe I'm here. It's my dream come true. 

Speaker 1: After starting the week with delicious chocolate cakes... It's absolute magic. ..they'll break hearts in the technical... Oh! ..before a shiny showstopper. It's glazed town, baby. Almost too good to eat. 

Speaker 6: I can see myself in. I can. 

Speaker 1: But who will bake their way into the grand finale? 

Speaker 3: I can't believe that I'm here for the semifinals. Just saying that out loud is kind of unbelievable. I'm still pinching myself a little bit. 

Speaker 7: It's so incredible to be here in the semifinals. It's a great Australian bake-off. And to top it off, it's chocolate week. I've got this. Me too. Everyone loves chocolate. I love chocolate. You love chocolate. 

Speaker 8: I am someone who can eat a piece of chocolate and look down the whole block of chocolate. So I guess that suggests I like chocolate. Chocolate week. 

Speaker 5: I don't bake with chocolate. Chocolate's just scary. 

Speaker 1: Welcome, bakers. The four of you have made it all the way to the semifinals. And next week, one of you will be crowned Australia's best amateur baker, taking home the ultimate baker's kitchen from Smeag, and the best story in the world that you can brag about to your friends and family. To kick off this delicious week, Rachel and Darren would like you to make your signature decorated chocolate cake. And to be honest, Natalie and I and the rest of the crew also share that profound desire. 

Speaker 2: Your chocolate cakes should be beautifully decorated using skills such as tempering, moulding and lacework. You can also use skills such as tap dancing, lion-taming and dressmaking. I don't know if they'll help, but you can do it. The world's your oyster. 

Speaker 1: You have two and a half hours to complete your decorated chocolate cake. On your marks, get set, fake! 

Speaker 3: This is definitely the most important signature so far. There's quite a bit of pressure on, and everyone is spectacular. 

Speaker 6: I love everything, but I think I'll have chocolate the most. It's the best ingredient to work with. 

Speaker 4: The chocolate needs to be the hero flavour. 

Speaker 5: Chocolate has to have nuts, caramel, crispy bits, and the chocolate is the afterthought. 

Speaker 4: The bakers need to find a complementary flavour that lets that chocolate shine. 

Speaker 8: I'm a real sweet tooth. Of course I'm a sweet tooth, but actually I need savoury, because I love chocolate. You need to alternate eating sweet and savoury so you can eat more sweet. 

Speaker 6: It's semi-finals now, so it's serious stuff. I want to see amazing chocolate decoration. I want to see skillful designs, and I want to see them be so creative it's going to absolutely blow my mind. 

Speaker 3: I definitely enjoy eating chocolate much more than I enjoy baking with it, only because it's quite challenging. It's very temperature-sensitive, very sensitive to the humidity. It makes me a little bit nervous, if I'm honest. Hello. Asa. 

Speaker 7: What are you making for us? So today I'm making a chocolate and coffee cake and some tempered chocolate trees. Growing up when we would drive home, I would think that the trees would come alive and would walk around the paddocks as we drive home in the dark. So that's why I guess they're ghost trees on the top of the cake. 

Speaker 6: Wow, spooky. Sounds terrifying. 

Speaker 1: Adam's spooky chocolate cake will be covered with tempered chocolate ghost trees and encased with a chocolate lace collar. Inside, it'll be filled with coffee jelly and an Irish liqueur buttercream. 

Speaker 6: Sounds delicious with dark chocolate, quite bitter coffee, quite bitter. How are you going to lift this up? 

Speaker 7: Yeah, so the jelly is quite sweet as well to sort of counterbalance the coffee that's in there as well. So hopefully together, it all plays nicely. 

Speaker 3: I absolutely love baking in the shed with all these wonderful clients. 

Speaker 8: My chocolate cake recipe has won me star baker twice. The judges said that they wanted to see something more from me, so I'm hoping that this can live up to that champion chocolate cake. 

Speaker 1: Elona's new chocolate cake will feature sour cherry jam and hazelnut ganache. She has intricate design plans for her decoration. 

Speaker 8: I plan to put a ring of hazelnuts arranged on the top and put a disc of very thin chocolate on the top of that. And then I borrowed my hairdryer from the hotel. I'm going to blow that over the top. Hopefully that will melt. And I'm also planning to make some tempered chocolate butterflies. 

Speaker 4: That sounds quite fiddly. I know. You can do it. Thank you. 

Speaker 1: I love that you borrowed the hairdryer from the hotel. I borrowed all the coat hangers from mine in the mini fridge. It's looking good. 

Speaker 7: So these are about to go into the oven for 20 minutes. Got a hint of coffee in there. It's not too sweet. So hopefully it bakes up nicely. Lovely. 

Speaker 3: Good. When I was a very small human, we used to go to this bakery and I would only ever get a massive wodge of black forest cake. 

Speaker 1: Laura's black forest floor cake will be decorated with tempered chocolate logs. The inside will feature shantilly cream and balsamic cherry jelly. 

Speaker 3: So this is a cherry balsamic jelly, just a tiny bit. Just to kind of bring some of those flavours out. 

Speaker 6: Well, that might cut through some of the richness of that sponge. So it would just be interesting to see how you assemble this creation. Yeah. 

Speaker 4: What does a black forest floor look like? 

Speaker 3: The top of it will have twigs and logs and hopefully it'll give you a little crumb that looks like earth. A couple of little, very, very fine details for you today. Good luck. Thank you. 

Speaker 7: Good luck. So I'm just pouring the jelly and then I'm going to set that in the fridge so it holds its shape and doesn't ooze out when the cake's stacked on top of it. No one's ready for this jelly. 

Speaker 1: Bake is. Your cake is halfway to my mouth. Halfway to my mouth. It is no longer safe for me to visit your bench in. 

Speaker 8: So much to do. 

Speaker 5: OK. We're blunt in one piece. Please cool. Please cool. Please cool. I'm going to get on to tempering my chocolate decorations. I am not an expert at tempering. 

Speaker 1: Sandra's making a Bundt cake filled with whipped gold, chocolate ganache and banana caramel, who creation will be topped with a tempered dark chocolate crown. 

Speaker 5: I'm tempering dark chocolate for a very good reason. Dark chocolate is the easiest to temper. 

Speaker 2: To create their shiny decorations, the bakers must ensure their chocolate is tempered. 

Speaker 7: I need to get it to about 32 degrees. And at the moment, it is at 36. 

Speaker 2: To do this, they'll gently heat and cool their chocolate, so when it hardens, it has a smooth and glossy finish. 

Speaker 7: I am just making my chocolate trees at the moment. So I've tempered the chocolate and I'm just piping it into ice water. 

Speaker 5: So I've got to get this up because I want it to be a crown. 

Speaker 8: I am making my tempered chocolate butterflies. 

Speaker 7: I'm just piping the chocolate collar. If I've tempered this correctly, it will go around my cake. 

Speaker 2: Now that tempering is done, the bakers move on to create their fillings. 

Speaker 7: So I've just poured in the coffee liqueur. So hopefully that has a nice hint of adult coffee in there. 

Speaker 3: Look at how beautiful and shiny my ganache is. 

Speaker 5: I think the caramel turned out beautiful. It's going to be great in the centre of that bump. 

Speaker 8: I'm trying to get all of my elements ready to go because there's not a lot of time for assembly. Are you dusting for fingerprints? What's happened? I'm going to pop this on top of those in a moment and then I'm going to jump up on a bench stool with my hairdryer and give it a bit of a blow dry. Are we ready? 

Speaker 3: Oh, what is going on? Really? 

Speaker 8: Can you see it starting to go? 

Speaker 3: That's amazing. Oh, that looks so cool. She's so clever. 

Speaker 8: I don't blow dry my hair, so... It's a new weapon for you. This is all very awkward. 

Speaker 1: I feel like I've just witnessed the making of a short art student film. 

Speaker 7: And my jelly has set by the looks of things. 

Speaker 2: Bakers, you have ten minutes remaining. Ten minutes. Oh, we smoke. 

Speaker 7: We'll just cover it with a little bit of icing. 

Speaker 3: I am putting a log on my forest floor. 

Speaker 9: We'll see. 

Speaker 7: I would say a chocolate collar is very delicate to work with. Ooh. 

Speaker 8: And we'll do it. We'll do it. Sweet. 

Speaker 2: Last little touches, folks. I don't know if I've done enough. 

Speaker 9: Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. 

Speaker 1: Please step away from our cakes. Well done. Well done. Thanks. Amazing. 

Speaker 9: Well done. No! Oh, sorry. 

Speaker 4: I love these butterflies. You can see how intricate they are. 

Speaker 6: It's really beautiful. And I'm looking forward to trying a new one of your cakes. Oh, it feels really nice and soft. You've packed loads of filling. You know we love that. All right. Do you want to slice as well? I love this sponge that you've done because it's slightly lighter. I love that ganache on top. 

Speaker 4: And then you have these beautiful chocolate butterflies and you've tempered them really well. I think the one thing which wasn't so successful was your hazelnuts with the chocolate you tried to melt with your hairdryer. It is a little bit messy. But otherwise, beautiful chocolate cake. Thank you. 

Speaker 2: I'm just so sorry that Rachael and Darren did this. They're an endangered species. There's only three left in the world now. I'm going to take this to the vet. Thanks, Alana. Thank you. 

Speaker 4: This is a bit of a feast of a cake. You're right. You're actually right. 

Speaker 6: I love the crown on top. It just sets off your cake. It feels a little bit dense. It is a little bit thick in places. The caramel is very smooth. It's been salted perfectly, which offsets the sweetness of that cake. 

Speaker 4: Less is sometimes more in terms of making it more sophisticated. This is the time we want to see that. I got a show stopper for you. 

Speaker 6: That looks awesome. Thank you. What do you think? 

Speaker 4: This is the kind of forest floor I want to be walking in. 

Speaker 6: It feels really nice and moist. 

Speaker 4: You've done a fantastic job at capturing those black forest flavours. The cherry jelly with that little bit of balsamic vinegar was a lovely touch because you retain that freshness in the cherries. 

Speaker 6: When you get that jelly, when you get that cream and the chocolate ganache together, it's absolute magic. It's pretty terrifying on top. There are those spooky trees. I actually like the look of it. I think for a chocolate cake, you thought outside the box. 

Speaker 4: You've done an amazing job with your lace chocolate collar. 

Speaker 6: Oh, look at that. Ooh. Big bit of coffee jelly going through there. It'd be buzzing. Slightly undersweet, which is really good because the sweetness of that buttercream makes a really beautiful balance. And then you get the bitter note of that coffee. It adds another dimension. Really works well together. 

Speaker 4: Your flavours in the cake are really spot-on, very moorish. 

Speaker 6: There's a snap to that chocolate, which is absolutely perfect. Thank you. 

Speaker 2: I'm also very excited that you've got trees that grow gold leaves and I'd like to take one home and plant it in my backyard. That's okay. Thank you very much. 

Speaker 7: I feel over the moon with that feedback. I'm really proud with what I put up today. Honestly, I couldn't be much happier. 

Speaker 5: I'm really happy. They didn't drink my milk though. They didn't get it. They should have drunk the milk. Damn. 

Speaker 9: Bakers, it's time for the technical bake. As we've reached the semifinals, we're turning it up a notch. This time the judges are going to give you a blank recipe and you just have to read their weird twisted minds. 

Speaker 1: Today's technical bake has been set by both judges. Oh, my goodness. 

Speaker 4: Judges, any tips? Make it snappy. 

Speaker 6: And don't go breaking our hearts. 

Speaker 2: Thank you, judges. Now hit the road. Good luck. Good luck, guys. 

Speaker 1: Now the judges have gone. I can reveal that they would like you to make Rachel and Darren's tempered chocolate heart. That's right. The judges want you to make them hearts. And Natalie would also like some courage and I could really do with a brain. This marbled white chocolate heart will be smashed open to reveal two different petty four, one representing each judge. 

Speaker 2: Bakers, you have two hours to make Rachel's heart and Rachel and Darren's tempered chocolate heart. So on your hearts, get set, hey! 

Speaker 3: I'm so scared of this. Whoa. 

Speaker 8: I thought it might be a bit more brief, but it's two pages. Oh, the colours. 

Speaker 5: I think it's really exciting that both judges have set the technical challenge. I think that might be the first time that's happened on Bake Off. 

Speaker 6: One, two, three. How good. It's so cool, isn't it? I think this is going to be an awesome challenge for our bakers because we've got your creativity and my creativity. 

Speaker 4: It's a double whammy. We've got this beautiful white marbled heart. 

Speaker 6: If it's tempered correctly, that chocolate's going to contract in the mould and then pop out really easily and leave that beautiful shine. I really love the look of yours. 

Speaker 4: They're based on a Swedish chocolate biscuit called choklad bisfi. You've got a nice tempered dark chocolate on the outside and then there's a very small almond macaroon and then you have a chocolate buttercream and my twist is putting a bit of tamari in there so you get a nice bit of saltiness. 

Speaker 6: I cannot wait to get into this. 

Speaker 9: Wow. That was absolutely delicious. The balance of that tamari is perfect. 

Speaker 4: The bakers really need to be careful with the proportions of the macaroon to the buttercream. 

Speaker 6: This is my salted caramel cup. There's nowhere to hide with these, Rachel, because we've got the tempered dark chocolate cup and the caramel. That's it, so both have to be perfect. I'm going to put the chocolate in the pan Wow, that is divine. 

Speaker 4: I love that salty caramel. 

Speaker 6: I want the thinnest possible shell to house that caramel. 

Speaker 4: I think balance is super important in both of these. 

Speaker 6: Exactly right. You know, the simpler it is sometimes, the harder it is to perfect. A little bit like our chocolate heart. Now, should we smash it? 

Speaker 4: Yes, please. All right. You can see how shiny it is. I'm going to just, like, snap a little bit off. 

Speaker 6: That's the thinnest chocolate you can get without it breaking. This is such a hard challenge that we've set them. 

Speaker 4: And it's a semi-final. This is what we want from them. 

Speaker 8: From the bottom of my heart, I am terrified. I am so worried about getting all of this done. 

Speaker 3: I wouldn't expect anything less from the judges for the semi-final. 

Speaker 5: There are so many elements to this, and we have to get it all done in two hours. It's crazy. 

Speaker 3: I have never heard of or made a chocolate biscuit. Biscuit. 

Speaker 7: I think a chocolate biscuit is based with, I don't know. 

Speaker 5: So, macron. Macrons. They're macrons. Chocolate biscuit beaver? Yeah, no. 

Speaker 8: I'm guessing chocolate biscuit is Swedish and is Rachel's macaroon. Chocolate biscuit beaver? Chocolate biscuit... 

Speaker 7: Chocolate biscuit. Chocolate biscuit beaver. 

Speaker 2: Chocolate biscuit beaver. Chocolate biscuit beaver. Chocolate biscuit beaver. 

Speaker 5: Chocolate biscuit beaver. Chocolate biscuit beaver. I'm making the macrons. 

Speaker 7: And bake until lightly golden. It doesn't say how long for. Tiki-bongers. Good luck, little macaroons. 

Speaker 5: I have to make a chocolate and tamari buttercream. 

Speaker 3: How much tamari am I putting in? One tablespoon. Is it right? Yep. 

Speaker 8: My tamari buttercream, he's absolutely scrumptious. 

Speaker 5: I love a little savory note. The tamari chocolate is yummy. Let's see how they go. 

Speaker 2: With Rachel's petty force setting, the bakers move on to Darren's chocolate caramel cups. Perfect. More 50. 

Speaker 3: I have made a salted caramel before. I have tempered chocolate before, but this is a lot of... I don't know. Stuff to do in not a lot of time. 

Speaker 7: It's been a long time since I've made salted caramel, but I think the key will be to make sure that we take it far enough so it's nice and dark, but not too far that it's burnt. 

Speaker 3: Can't be frustrated at chocolate. It needs to be loved to work. 

Speaker 1: Bakers, you are halfway! Halfway! Halfway, bakers! 

Speaker 2: What? It was like a... I liked it. That was good. Don't worry about them, they're really mean. 

Speaker 7: There's a lot of moving parts in this tech bake. I'll have to sit on the bench, okay? 

Speaker 1: To make the judges' hearts, the bakers must temper white chocolate and choose the colours to marble it with. I'm gonna go with this kind of combo. 

Speaker 7: I think Make It Snappy is referring to making sure the chocolate is tempered correctly so that when the judges tap the heart with the hammer, it will snap. 

Speaker 8: I'm so far behind in my chocolate seizing. Ah, yay, yay. I swirled to coat. It's not gonna swirl. 

Speaker 5: I'm using purple, yellow, orange and pink because I thought they'd be pretty. 

Speaker 1: How's it going? I've never seen the inside of a heart before. Oh, yeah, it looks like this. Wow. It's a lot simpler than surgeons lead you to believe. There's not a bench on it. 

Speaker 3: OK. Don't go breaking the judges' hearts. It means that you want this beautiful heart in one piece. 

Speaker 7: I reckon that's set. So, pop that in the fridge for five to seven minutes. 

Speaker 1: While your chocolate hearts are seizing, the bakers can start assembling. I'm so close. Rachel and Darren's sweet treats. OK. 

Speaker 8: It's my favourite chocolate in the whole world. 

Speaker 3: I'm putting on them is a little bit uneven, but I only need three. It's set lovely and quick, which means that my chocolate's in temper. Ah. Oh. OK. So, I have to pop these little cups out of their moulds and then pipe some of the caramel into these little cups and then top them with silver salt flakes. 

Speaker 5: BAKERS, don't be chocolate. You have 15 minutes. That was bad. 

Speaker 1: It's time to check their hearts and hope they don't break them. 

Speaker 7: Ah. It's not as easy as... I thought it would be. Oh. Oh, thank God. Oh. Oh. Yay! 

Speaker 5: Yay! No, it's breaking. Honestly. It's just a little bit of a mess. Two minutes, Bakers. Well, I'll just keep moving. 

Speaker 1: You should be on to your final touches. 

Speaker 3: 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. 

Speaker 1: Hands off your hearts, everyone. APPLAUSE Well done. You still got about. 

Speaker 2: Bakers, please bring your hearts up to the table. 

Speaker 1: Now the judges will blind-taste the Bakers' hearts before ranking them. 

Speaker 6: We've set you a really hard challenge, so I just want to say, looking at these, congratulations. 

Speaker 4: I'm really impressed that you've all managed to put up a shiny heart, and I can't wait to break them all. OK, first heart. 

Speaker 6: It's...it's not super shiny. 

Speaker 4: I think the Baker hit has done a beautiful job with the marbling. Wow. Those are some neat cups there, the chocolate biscuit. Nice bit of tempering on the top. 

Speaker 6: Shall we try my salty caramel first? 

Speaker 4: Yes, first try. OK. 

Speaker 6: The Baker who made that has made a perfect caramel, in my opinion. The chocolate is very well tempered as well. 

Speaker 4: Let's try my chocolate biscuit. When you bite into this, you get that lovely snap of that tempered chocolate. I'm looking inside the macaroon at the base. It's quite thick. 

Speaker 6: Who's going to smash the heart ratio? I think you should. All right. Took quite a whack there. I don't know if it's too thick, or whether Rachel's heart-breaking days are over. 

Speaker 4: I think they are. They just look a little bit thinner on one side. Let's go on to number two. I love the colour on this. This looks amazing, and a fantastic shine on this white chocolate. Nice, thin cup. 

Speaker 6: It tastes really good. That cup is super thin. This is your chocolate biscuit. Biscuit? Biscuit. Yeah. 

Speaker 4: It's been done so neatly, and even the bottom is really neat here. The tamari buttercream has that lovely saltiness, which makes it well balanced. 

Speaker 6: I think the chocolate is really well tempered. Let's crack on with the heart. 

Speaker 4: It is beautifully tempered. Look how that snapped into shards like glass. It is impeccable. 

Speaker 6: Okay, the shine on top of the heart looks really professional. 

Speaker 4: I love the pink and the orange. Oh wow. Your caramel cups, very fine chocolate. 

Speaker 6: Yeah, super fine chocolate work. I do like that caramel. Just approaching the dark side, but you can't taste any bitterness. 

Speaker 4: These are so cute. Very neat. The proportion here of the macaroon biscuit to the cream is spot on. 

Speaker 6: I was going to say, Rachel, they're actually really similar to yours. Oh, it's nice and even throughout. Lucky last. 

Speaker 4: It's unfortunately there's a little hole at the top. Yeah. Okay, let's have a look. Whoa, there's a lot of salt on that. 

Speaker 6: A caramel is awesome. There's a good amount of salt in there. Unfortunately, the salt on the top disrupts that balance a little bit. 

Speaker 4: That caramel is very much like the caramel you made. Let's try my chocolate biscuit. I don't feel like the chocolate is snappy or crunchy as some of the other chocolate coatings we've had. Let's give this a tap. The chocolate here is wonderfully thin and it had a snap to it. 

Speaker 6: It's super fine, but that's where the problem was. It's a shame that all that work resulted in a broken heart. We're super impressed with this. 

Speaker 4: Definitely no easy task to temper both white chocolate and dark chocolate. So well done. 

Speaker 1: The judges must now rate the chocolate hearts from first to last. In fourth position, I'm used to it. 

Speaker 6: Oh, Sandra. I'm so sorry that you had a hole at the back there. In third position, Ilona. 

Speaker 4: Your caramel was spot on. It's unfortunate that your chocolate was a little bit on the heavy side. In second position, Laura. Those chocolate biscuits. Thank you. 

Speaker 6: And that of course means in first position is, again, Adam. 

Speaker 4: How many times have you now won? This is the fourth. Oh my goodness. 

Speaker 6: Well done to Adam, but well done to all of you guys. You did an excellent job. 

Speaker 7: Winning a fourth pick bake, unbelievable. And particularly on semi-final, when the challenges are getting harder and harder. I'm just so happy that I did as well as I did. Really good fun. 

Speaker 5: My heart is definitely not broken yet. I want to be one of the final three. Absolutely want to be there. 

Speaker 9: Good morning. 

Speaker 2: It's time for your semi-final showstopper. This is it. This is your final chance to impress the judges and earn your place in the 2023 Great Australian Bake Off Grand Finale. Today, the judges would like you to make a mirror glazed cake collection. 

Speaker 1: Your collection should have 10 individual cakes, two sets of five in two different shapes, flavors, designs and colors. The fillings must include chocolate and the outside must be shiny enough that Natalie and I start picking it at like disparate lonely budgies. Are you my friend? Are you my friend? Are you my friend? Judges, any tips to share? 

Speaker 4: I'm looking for a super glossy mirror glaze. Remember, this might be your last bake in the shed, so enjoy it. 

Speaker 6: Just have fun and give me neat and shiny cakes. 

Speaker 2: You have four and a half hours to make your chocolate mirror glazed cake collection. On your marks, get set, bake! 

Speaker 7: I think timing is one of the most important things in the bake today. There's a lot of components that need to be chilled and the final cake obviously needs to be frozen before we can glaze it. If it's not frozen, it's not going to work. 

Speaker 3: The big, big thing today is getting all of these lovely flavor bomb inserts into the freezer and setting as quickly as possible so that I can assemble a beautiful, shiny, gorgeous set of mirror glaze cakes at the end. 

Speaker 2: There's a lot to do before the bakers can glaze their cakes. Each cake will include a baked element and a flavored filling that will set inside a mousse. Once set, the bakers can pour their glazes onto their desserts. 

Speaker 8: Hello, Elona. How are you? I'm excited, nervous, overwhelmed, happy. So are we. 

Speaker 4: Elona, what are you making for us today? 

Speaker 8: I'm making our two fruit-based mirror glaze cakes. 

Speaker 2: Elona's first dessert will feature an apricot jelly and mango mousse with a dark chocolate mirror glaze. Her second will consist of Yuzu jelly with lemon cheesecake mousse and a white chocolate mirror glaze. 

Speaker 4: Two mirror glazes. It sounds like you really want to be in the finale. Don't we all? 

Speaker 8: I'd just be so thrilled. 

Speaker 6: Well, it's not all about you, Elona. Bernard wants to be in the final as well. 

Speaker 8: Well, I'll do it for Bernard. All right, good luck. Thank you so much. 

Speaker 5: It's an emotional day. I haven't felt these emotions before in the shed. It's funny that I didn't feel this way yesterday, but now that we're in the showstopper end of the game, I'm suddenly feeling that I want to be in that final. 

Speaker 2: Sandra's first dessert will be shaped like slices of cake and will feature white chocolate mousse and raspberry jelly covered in a red mirror glaze. Her second will be a tropical paradise mirror glaze cake with a passion fruit biscuit base. 

Speaker 5: So I'm straining the passion fruit, and then I'm going to use the seeds in my crunchy base. This is going to go in the oven. 

Speaker 1: While the dessert bases are in the oven, the bakers start working on their fillings. 

Speaker 7: So I'm just making a start on my strawberry gel here. So I've just got to cook down the strawberries, then I'll add some agar, let that sit in the fridge for a little while, and then whiz it up into a gel which I'll pipe into the cake. 

Speaker 3: So today is about timing and making sure everything is at the right temperature so it sets. 

Speaker 8: Oh, it smells so beautiful. I've really just been waiting to use Yuzu. It's like you crossed citruses together and got something even better. 

Speaker 5: So this has got to go into the freezer now. And I got to get my jelly set in the freezer before I put it on the mousse. Hello, Adam. 

Speaker 7: Are you up for this tonight? I'm like equal parts confident and slightly terrified. 

Speaker 2: Adam's peanut butter and jelly cake will feature a strawberry gel and roasted peanuts. His pear and chocolate cake will sit on a chocolate brownie base and contain pear mousse. 

Speaker 6: Is that brownie the base of your pear cake? It is. 

Speaker 7: So that's the brownie there. 

Speaker 6: Oh, it looks good. So I'm going to just pop that over there. I'm known for my chocolate and pear cake. Yes. You look worried now. We came over you. We're not supposed to be doing that. 

Speaker 7: There's a lot to do, but if I keep on top of it, it should all go well. 

Speaker 2: Before we disappear, smooth or crunchy peanut butter? Always crunchy. Always crunchy. This is why this is it. Always crunchy. What are my ex-guys? All right, out it comes. 

Speaker 8: This is a chocolate sponge. It needs to complement some pretty delicate flavours and light mousses. 

Speaker 1: Mirror, mirror on the cake. You're halfway through your shiny bake. Halfway. Halfway. 

Speaker 7: I feel like I've grown a lot since I've been here. I feel like I've learned a lot. It would mean the world to be a finalist. It would be lovely to be able to sort of prove to myself that I could get there, I think. 

Speaker 3: So I want to share a bit more about the sort of memories that I have with them. I wanted to take the judges back to sitting in a hawker centre with a large glass of a very famous chocolate malt drink. I love reading my history and my stories into my bake. I think food is something that threads culture and background together. 

Speaker 2: Laura's first mirror glaze cake has a malt biscuit base and features a raspberry jelly. Her second will contain a chocolate and waddle seed brownie and a chocolate coffee mousse. Both will be covered in a white chocolate glaze. 

Speaker 3: So I'm making one big batch and then separating out into the different colours. 

Speaker 4: When it comes to the mirror glaze, be confident because if you're hesitant and you pour twice, that's where you end up with a messy glaze. 

Speaker 3: Disaster. That's when I end up with the glaze on me. We don't want that. Nope, not today. 

Speaker 1: I was attracted by the sound of chocolate buttons. 

Speaker 5: I have caramel, dark and white. 

Speaker 1: I've never had caramel chocolate in a button before. Thank you. Pretty good. 

Speaker 5: You look pretty good. How are you going? It's featuring in my mousse cake. 

Speaker 1: Now when you say mousse cake, is it Canadian mousse or is it chocolate mousse? 

Speaker 5: Well, I couldn't get the mousse in a ring mold. So I had to go with the actual creamy one. You could maybe do like little chocolate antlers. You might have inspired me. 

Speaker 7: Here I'm just making my mousse that's going to go in the pear and chocolate dome. It's white chocolate. I've just stirred in some of the pear puree and then it will be whipped with some cream and then put in the domes. 

Speaker 3: I've made the mousse pretty rich and silky but a little bit light as well. The lightness and the air bubbles help with the freezing. This is my mango mousse. 

Speaker 5: Yes. Oh my gosh. That's topical Queensland. 

Speaker 2: Which ones? Yeah, any of these big bits. The corners are the best bits. I know. Don't you want Darren to be like... 

Speaker 3: You don't want that? I mean I do but they're going to get the fudgy bit in the middle. How? 

Speaker 1: This is my second bit. Oh, she's already had some. Oh, I love second bits. 

Speaker 2: Now their cakes and fillings are made. The bakers can start assembling their desserts. 

Speaker 7: I'm just piping in some of the mousse. I'm going to spread it out the sides. Then put the pear insert in. 

Speaker 5: I'm going to keep working on this. It's going to go back in the freezer the last minute. 

Speaker 8: Chilling time is really crucial. This has to go in the freezer for as long as humanly possible so that when you pour your glaze on it sticks. I'm making my glaze for one of my mirror cakes. 

Speaker 1: To make their glazes the bakers will combine gelatin, glucose, condensed milk and melted chocolate. But before they can use it it must come down to the right temperature. 

Speaker 3: Mirror glazes are really really technical. You've got to make them and pour them at exactly the right temperature for them to work. 

Speaker 7: So these glazes need to drop to 35 degrees and it's currently at 50. 

Speaker 5: My mirror glaze it's not coming down to the right temperature so that I can pour it over these guys. 

Speaker 1: Bakers, 30 minutes to go. Okay. While they wait for their mirror glazes to cool the bakers attempt to demold their frozen mousse cakes. 

Speaker 7: It is very fiddly. You don't want to try and disrupt the shape because the smoother the shape the better the mirror glaze will pour. My mousse is really gorgeous. Oh they're so soft. 

Speaker 3: By some absolute miracle these are completely frozen which is lovely. I'm very happy. Hopefully the glaze will pour on them and it'll look an absolute treat. I think I'm going to put a mirror glaze on now. It's very important that there aren't any little bubbles because when you pour it you don't want little texture on your cake so just giving them a little tap. 

Speaker 7: The color is nice and bright. The glaze has gone relatively even so be pleased. 

Speaker 5: I am not an expert at mirror glaze. Is it too thin? Is it going to be gummy? I just don't know. It's got a nice glisten to it. 

Speaker 3: It's glazed town baby. 

Speaker 8: If you leave them out for too long they get condensation on them. I swear and then the mirror glaze doesn't stick to them. It runs off the water so you have to glaze them while they're super cold. Oh that looks awesome. 

Speaker 2: Bakers you have 10 minutes to go. 

Speaker 7: I just want to do the best I can today to secure my spot in that grand finale. 

Speaker 8: I'm just trying my absolute best. 

Speaker 3: It's all about today making sure that we impress the judges to secure our spots in the finale. 

Speaker 7: They're shiny. They've got gold on them. These ones turned out really well but pink and the gold have gone well. The chocolate looks good. I'm really happy with how they've turned out. 

Speaker 5: I'm going to make them as pretty as possible. Maybe if I sophisticated up the decorations they might not notice the fact they're a bit wobbly on the bottom. 

Speaker 2: Two minutes bakers. Two little minutes to go. Can I help? 

Speaker 8: Can you put those? Can you put those on the top of the dome? 

Speaker 7: Right on the top? Yeah just in here. I'll grab my tweezers. Yeah that'd be great. I trust you. 

Speaker 5: They're beautiful. The mousse isn't firm enough. I gotta get it in the freezer. What a great production line. Finishing touches now. 

Speaker 3: I am happy mostly. 

Speaker 1: 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Step away from the shiny things. Come here. Well done. 

Speaker 9: Makeers congratulations on finishing your mirror glaze cake collection. Adam we'd like to reflect on your cakes. Please bring them here. 

Speaker 4: Wow. I mean you've got the spooky theme going on again haven't you? They're like mysterious dark colors. 

Speaker 6: Super shiny. Very artistic. You've also got different color glazes going on so they're really unique and fun. They look like adorable amoeba. You've got really thin glaze going on on the outside which is hard to do when you're trying to do different colors. Wow really great. I love the fruit in there. Kind of lifts it up. The flavors are bang on. Really good. 

Speaker 4: You cooked your pear beautifully. You really have got a beautiful chocolate brownie going on. It has a wonderful consistency. Well done. 

Speaker 6: Right I'll try the pink pill. 

Speaker 4: Adam you can really see your skill with mirror glaze. Wow. I immediately think of peanut butter and strawberry jam sandwiches as a kid and that combination is really lively and I must say your little tentacles. I mean it's so fun. 

Speaker 6: Adam loved it. It was an exciting dessert. They were flavors that we all love so I really enjoyed that. I also enjoyed your glazing. Really well done. Super professional. Thank you. 

Speaker 4: Well Elona you definitely pushed yourself. You decided to do two types of mirror glazes 

Speaker 6: and they all look identical and we've got a dark chocolate glaze that I can see myself in. I can. First one the yuzu cheesecake. Wow that looks pretty good. 

Speaker 4: It's beautifully set. Wow that yuzu. It's beautiful and so well balanced with the cheesecake mousse. It's really light and delicate and the mirror glaze is spot on. I mean I could definitely see this in a beautiful patisserie in Paris. It's stunning. Thank you. 

Speaker 6: It's really bright and fresh and then you hit the chocolate sponge which is delicious. 

Speaker 4: Right I think we should try the other one. 

Speaker 2: You'll break it if you keep looking at it. Well that's a good sound. So neat. 

Speaker 4: Elona this cake I've noticed is quite thick but that apricot is bright. It's really packed full of flavor. 

Speaker 6: In that glaze the condensed milk makes it quite sweet. That sweetness if you get it on too thick it permeates throughout the dessert. It's made it a little bit sweet for me but amazing construction. Thank you. 

Speaker 4: Sandra I love the look of these mirror cakes. They have this wonderful tropical feel. I can see you struggled a little bit with your slices of cake but the glaze is really shiny. Looks pretty good Sandra. 

Speaker 6: You've got that caramel just oozing out. That's a really good consistency. 

Speaker 4: It's very hard to see the difference between the mousse and the glaze. Sandra I love the way you've used the passion fruit seeds in your biscuit base. I think that's really innovative and it adds a wonderful crunch to the biscuit. I do find that the flavors are very sweet and I'm not getting the tartness from the passion fruit. 

Speaker 6: The gold caramel chocolate is a very sweet ingredient so you have to be careful using it in everything. That said it was really delicious. 

Speaker 4: I think we should try the chocolate slice. 

Speaker 6: It's a really soft mousse and a very fine biscuit underneath. I mean obviously they haven't turned out as you would have liked but they look really delicious. 

Speaker 9: Sandra it's really nice in the mouth. Chocolate and raspberry. Amazing combination. It all works really well together. 

Speaker 4: I can see where you are going with this but because there's not enough of the raspberry I'm just not getting the balance that I would expect. 

Speaker 6: Sandra you always put so much of yourself into your bakes so thank you very much. I love the contrast in color. I think some of them glaze better than others. 

Speaker 4: Laura these are so joyful the pink ones with the little raspberry on top. It looks really cool. 

Speaker 9: Laura I love the way you have layers of flavors in this dessert. You get the raspberry and then you get the slow malt coming through. It's very kind of subtle in the background and then the texture with the biscuit at the bottom. I do wonder maybe it's on slightly too thick because it's quite dent against the mousse. 

Speaker 6: I don't think it's too much I think it's just a little bit too crispy so it's hard to cut through and eat when you want to eat it quick and that's what I want to do. 

Speaker 4: Oh it looks very chocolatey. Yeah they do. You don't even need to say anything it's all over your face. 

Speaker 6: Oh my god I love the caramel. Wow get a big hit of coffee caramel chocolate I love it. 

Speaker 4: And the mousse is silky smooth. I think what you've done here is really interesting because you've got your childhood flavors here and then you've got the grown-up version you've really translated that world to flavors. Well done thank you so much. 

Speaker 2: Semi-finals what a week. 

Speaker 6: I've had a really great week personally from my point of view of tasting. 

Speaker 1: And I just keep looking at the things that are going oh I would buy that. I would buy that. 

Speaker 4: I would buy that. So many amazing chocolate creations. 

Speaker 2: It's a final show stopper for somebody. 

Speaker 6: The standard was so high everyone really stepped up. 

Speaker 4: They all want to be in the final you can see it in their eyes you can taste it in their bakes. 

Speaker 2: They're all incredible and it's such an awful question but who do you think is going on. 

Speaker 6: We've come to the top four and they're the best of the best. I'm kind of thinking back on the the whole season and that's how I'm going to make my decision. 

Speaker 4: Yeah I mean Ilona has this sophistication and elegance to her bakes. Sandra I love hearing all her stories her Canadian heritage how she's made Australia her home and how she combines those flavors together into her bake. 

Speaker 6: Adam did great. I loved the sets of fun. 

Speaker 4: He always has this quirky side to him. 

Speaker 6: Laura did exceptionally well. 

Speaker 4: She really wants to tell a story with her baking. 

Speaker 6: Aside from the bake they're all really amazing people. 

Speaker 4: They've all been star bakers but only three can be in the finale. 

Speaker 1: I've just got one final question. Do you take bribes? Yeah. What? 

Speaker 4: No. 

Speaker 2: Bakers congratulations on a delicious chocolate week in the shed. This week I have the delightful task of announcing who the final star baker for the year is. This baker has had a dream run. They are never flustered under pressure. 

They love evocative flavors and bold colors and they are always the first to lend a generous hand to others. I am so happy to announce that this year's final star baker is Adam. How do you feel? 

Speaker 7: I'm a little bit shocked to be honest. I feel like I'm choking up but I'm happy I'm very happy. 

Speaker 1: This leaves me with a sorrowful task that I really really don't want to do and that is to announce who will be leaving us tonight. Over the last nine weeks this baker has filled the shed with their ambitious creative bakes and showcased their love for two homes both original and adopted and they've made a third home here with us. And that's why I'm absolutely heartbroken to say that the baker leaving us tonight so close to finale is Sandra. That's good. I'm so sorry, Sandra. 

Speaker 5: This is just the beginning for me and I'm so appreciative that I've had this opportunity. It's more than I could have hoped for. I've had the most amazing experience and I know I can do anything now. We'll miss you. 

Speaker 4: It's been great having you. Thank you for all your help. Sandra should be so proud of herself. She really has proven that she can bake beautiful cakes. She has technical skill and just such a warm and wonderful person. 

Speaker 6: Adam, this week's Star Baker. Congratulations. 

Speaker 7: I'm completely over the moon taking out Star Baker in the semifinal winning the technical. It's more than I could have hoped for. I am thrilled. What a mate. Thank you. 

Speaker 6: Adam, Laura and Ilona. All of them very different bakers but all of them super talented. They have their own style so it's going to be such an interesting finale. Ilona and Laura who joined Adam in the final. Well done. 

Speaker 8: I get to bake 30 times in a shit and that's all I could even ask for. 

Speaker 4: The last free standing. I know. 

Speaker 3: It's so unreal. I can't believe I'm a finalist. I'm still in shock. I don't think I've understood what is actually happening. Well done. 