MUSIC In the beginning... 

Speaker 1: Oh, thank you, anyone. ..there were 12. 

Speaker 2: So, Nicky, tell us about your beaver. 

Speaker 3: LAUGHTER Now... This is it, the storm is coming. There are three. 

Speaker 4: Let's see how we go. 

Speaker 5: Why is it doing that? There can only be one winner. 

Speaker 6: I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Patience. 

Speaker 7: Oh, no, it didn't dust him in icing sugar, did it? It's not your best shot. WHISTLING I don't see Tant now, is it? 

Speaker 8: Just three challenges stand between the finalists and the Bake-off title. Best of luck. Go, go, go, Josh. Josh's passion for precision was obvious from week one. 

Speaker 2: I love the way one of her eyes is completely gone with a frid. 

Speaker 8: By week two, he had already had the Hollywood handshake. Amazing. But every week, he's delivered stunning showstoppers. It's beautiful. Delivering him star baker, not once, but twice. 

Speaker 6: Just want to be able to have three good last bakes that I can be happy with, but we shall see. 

Speaker 5: This year's first star baker, Dan, has often made his life complicated. 

Speaker 4: I am doing the aromatic flavours of a tiger in curry. What are you thinking? 

Speaker 5: And it hasn't always been successful. It's a bit sandy and drunken. But he's fought back from disappointment. These aren't baked. Winning more technical challenges than any of his fellow finalists, the Hollywood handshake... That's beautiful. ..and was star baker again in dessert week. 

Speaker 4: I'd love to, wouldn't it? But I'm against the East too. Little Rugrats this weekend. Such good lads. I am going to have to really raise my game. 

Speaker 8: Matty's time in the tent did not begin well. I can't give that to anyone. 

Speaker 9: But he's listened. It looks like he's been run over. And learned. 

Speaker 2: The look of it is really very good. Polishing decoration. 

Speaker 9: Your box is beautifully engineered. And perfecting flavours. The chilli is great in there. 

Speaker 8: But despite a handshake and winning star baker twice, he's never won a technical challenge. 

Speaker 10: I would say that on the underdog, everyone likes the underdog though, right? Please. 

Speaker 5: LAUGHTER Welcome back to the Tent Bakers for your last ever signature challenge. 

Speaker 8: The judges would like you to bake eight exquisite, highly decorative eclairs. 

Speaker 5: You should choose two different types in terms of decoration and flavour. 

Speaker 8: Now, remember, guys, this is the final. So the judges would like you to bake in the nude. 

Speaker 5: LAUGHTER And when Noel says judges, he means pru. 

Speaker 8: You have two hours and 15 minutes. On your marks. Good set. Bic! 

Speaker 6: I don't believe this is the last signature I'm going to do. I'm a bit nervous. I just hope these look all right. 

Speaker 11: There's a lot of personal pride for each one of us. We all play sport. We're all competitive. 

Speaker 4: And when I play football, I always have to wear two pairs of socks. I've got four pairs of underpants on today because I'm going to need them. 

Speaker 9: They're going to make two different types of eclairs and they've got to be perfect. 

Speaker 2: The pastry needs to be really puffed up and crisp as anything. 

Speaker 9: But you want beautiful air holes in the inside which you can fill with cream or custard. But the problem is you can add too many creams and custards to it and make it soggy. 

Speaker 2: They've all had two star bakers. They've all had a handshake. So they are absolutely level-picking. And I have the clue who's going to win. 

Speaker 9: And if they want to win, the Great British Baker starts now with the eclairs. 

Speaker 4: Hello, Dan. Hello, Dan. Good morning. How are you? 

Speaker 9: All right. Tell us all about your eclairs. 

Speaker 4: What are you doing? So I'm doing strawberries and cream under a summer fruit punch jelly. And for my second one, I'm doing a salted caramel mascarpone cream with a praline ganache on top. Sounds very nice. 

Speaker 5: Yeah, doesn't it sound good? Dan will top his salted caramel and praline eclairs with crisp tempered chocolate. His strawberries and creamy eclairs will be decorated with shantilly cream and cubes of jelly. 

Speaker 4: Tell us about your shoe. Some of my first pastries are sort of learnt to make, so I've got my set recipe and never fails. 

Speaker 5: So far. So far, yeah. Josh is also hoping to fill shoe pastry with a taste of summer. Is this some of your own fruit from your own garden? 

Speaker 6: Well, actually, it's not now, because I've used it all up. You used all your fruit? 

Speaker 12: I'm just letting it out there. I keep bringing it all in, and it's all gone. What flavours are you doing? We're going to do coconut mango and raspberry. 

Speaker 8: Alongside his summery eclaire, Josh plans another filled with coffee-pasted cream and topped with dark chocolate and coffee icing. 

Speaker 6: That's to my brother, because he's not a huge fruit lover at all. So most of the things that I've been making recently, he's not really like them. What does he say? Does he get, yeah, it's all right? Yeah, so he'll try a bit of... Exactly like that. Thanks for the encouragement. 

Speaker 4: So you need to melt the butter first, then bring it to the boil, get your flour in, and people in daylight start to have it. 

Speaker 5: Unless the finest combined butter, milk and flour with the perfect amount of egg... I'm smidgened. ..their shoe will be loose, creating flat, soggy eclairs. 

Speaker 11: I've avoided shoe pastry like the plague up until this week. 

Speaker 8: Matty's hoping to play it safe with two classics. Black Forest Gâteau Eclairs topped with a cursed Chantilly cream and Bonofia Clairs, featuring a walnut and pecan praline. 

Speaker 5: Are you all right? I'm so happy for you. I'm so happy that you're here. 

Speaker 11: Do you feel like you could do this? Yeah, and I've not really given you that thought. Oh, I never replied, so I never really had that as, like, a thought process. So you didn't apply for this? No, Lara replied for me. Oh, I love Lara. 

Speaker 13: He would never have applied for himself. It's just not in his nature. He's not braggie. I wanted him to be a part of something like this, to show to him how amazing he is, because it doesn't matter how much I tell him. He doesn't believe me. 

Speaker 12: I don't actually understand most of the things he's made, if I'm absolutely honest. Especially you, because you're not a dessert person anyway, really. No, so it's all a bit over my head. 

Speaker 2: So his ability is obviously increased as it goes along. 

Speaker 13: It was an anniversary cake last year, didn't it? Did it? Don't make the lemon cake. 

Speaker 12: Oh, yes. Yeah, yes. Sorry, very nice. 

Speaker 13: We'll go to school, we'll do all of his after-school club. Perfect. He'll get in, start baking straight away, baking until we go to bed. And there were times when he's being running around the kitchen like a headless chicken that I thought, oops, like, this is all my fault. I don't know when the penny's gonna drop that he's good at baking. I definitely think he can win it. Good luck, Lattice. 

Speaker 5: Good luck, Lattice. I want you to actually think about you possibly winning it. Yeah, you've got to start visualising it. Yeah, that's actually what Lauren says. Start visualising like you winning. 

Speaker 8: But before any of the finalists can see themselves winning... Come on, don't play games. ...they'll need to take a long, hard look at their shoe. 

Speaker 11: This is the part where I said about trusting your instinct. You need it to fall off in three seconds. Do you know how many videos I've had to watch? I want to start piping them out. 

Speaker 14: I'm just looking for a bit of uniformity. You can see my hands shaking kind as well. It's shoe. I don't mind if it's over. 

Speaker 5: Without a dusting of icing sugar, an eclair won't have its classic crisp shell. 

Speaker 6: I'm doing two different types of shoe. 

Speaker 5: But Josh has decided to go even further. 

Speaker 6: I've gone for a chocolate crackerline topping. A couple of millimetres thickness is all you need. Do or die now. They're gonna go in 40 minutes. 

Speaker 4: Half an hour, 175. 

Speaker 11: 15 minutes, 200. Take it down to 175 for another 15 minutes. Maybe 20, maybe 25. I want them to be dry. 

Speaker 7: Oh, no, it didn't dust them in icing sugar, I haven't did that. 

Speaker 4: Too late now, innit? You put icing sugar on yours, mate? Yes, mate, did you? I forgot, didn't I? Oh, no way. It wouldn't be me not forgetting this, would it? Josh, how you doing, mate? Yeah, I think okay. Is she looking all right? Yeah. Good lad. It's looking all over the place, mate. I'm dreaming. It's just like the most surreal week ever, isn't it? 

Speaker 8: And your kids don't know that you're a real... I've told them. You've told them yesterday... My kids don't know that I do this. 

Speaker 4: Don't they? No. No, it's probably the best way, because I tell you what, you went down like a lead bloom yesterday when I told them. 

Speaker 8: What do you mean? 

Speaker 4: What, nothing? Gave you nothing. He just went, you're lying. I'm gonna give you a little fava talk, like I'm very disappointed in you. Oh, no. 

Speaker 14: I'm not angry. I'm just disappointed. Disappointed. 

Speaker 1: On the top, mate! You're gonna see me! 

Speaker 4: This lie is the biggest burden of my life, especially when I tell my children. Never lie. But obviously, this is a sight exception. My eldest sort of wanders into the kitchen. He doesn't really question anything. He goes, oh, what are you doing today, Dad? 

I was like, yeah, I'm just making an electric guitar out of puff pastry. He's like, cool. But there's like, wanders off of his iPad. He just thinks I'm absolutely crack as a thing. 

Speaker 8: But there are some members of Dan's family that have known what he's been up to. 

Speaker 15: It's been very difficult keeping it quiet and not telling the world that my son's in a make-off. I'm so proud of him. What was Dan like as a little lad? He was a whirlwind. He was cheeky. He was mischievous as well. The trophies that he's won, playing football, they used to line his bedroom walls. It never got to his head that he was man of the match or player of the year. He's very critical of himself. 

Speaker 4: I want to make sure I put my kids in bed, you know, and try and live that sort of normal life and help our three and other family stuff as much as possible. As soon as eight o'clock strikes, it's in here until I'm done, basically, so yeah, it's totally covert, door closed. 

Look like I'm a good sleeper. Whatever happens, I'll make sure that I leave the tent as I came in with a big smile on my face because I've absolutely loved it. 

Speaker 3: Good luck, Dan. You'll absolutely smash it. Cheers. Thank you. 

Speaker 16: Do you think he can win? Yes. I think he can. We're not as dark as we normally are. 

Speaker 5: Bakers, you are halfway through. 

Speaker 8: As their shoe bakes, the finalists will need every minute to perfect two delicious fillings. 

Speaker 11: Creme pâte. This is a chocolate one. Then I'll turn my attention to the banana one. 

Speaker 4: This is for Maldice lad. I love to salt the caramel ice cream, so I thought I'd pay homage to a wonderful boy that he is. 

Speaker 5: Whilst Dan and Matty race to create separate fillings for each of their two eclairs... Decent. ...Josh has perfected a shortcut. 

Speaker 6: Just prepping pastry creams now. I've been tweaking with the recipes, so I can have exactly the same base for both of them. One's going to be a coffee one. This one has got coconut milk. Just means I can do them a little bit quicker because I know it's a lot of pressure on today. That's our VIP experience at Gardeners World. Very clever lad. 

Speaker 12: He likes perfection, so he will keep going and doing something until he's got as best as he can get. See, Nanny always has a smile on her face wherever we are. 

Speaker 6: She's always got colourful necklaces on. 

Speaker 12: I'm pretty much the same as she is now. He's a love of baking. He did stem from being with Nanny. My mum always fetched them out of school. They'd go back to her house and then we would be baking. 

Speaker 8: Josh's Nan Frida first encouraged him to apply for Bake-Off back in 2019. Looking very smiley. She died in 2021. 

Speaker 12: Nanny was a big part of him applying the second time around. He really wanted to do it for her because... She so wanted him to be on that show. She loved all his baking. 

She says, you go for it, you go for it. And he's gone and he's got to the final. And I can't believe it. Sorry. Oh, mum. I know. Do you want it, Josh? 

Speaker 6: I mean, it would be lovely, wouldn't it? 

Speaker 5: Come on, Josh! All I'm visualising in my head is what my show stuff should look like. What's the one thing you're going to miss from the tent? You, of course. It's the right answer! It's the right answer! It's seen a bit, Mum. 

Speaker 4: Apart from not putting the icing sugar on, so they're not as hot as they're like, looking alright, I'm quite a pooper. 

Speaker 10: Five minutes. 

Speaker 11: I think I'm alright with how it looks. Let's give it a minute. Out of my depth. 

Speaker 8: Halston's just informed me. He literally went, what are you going to miss most out of this tent? And you said you to her. It's absolutely furious. I thought we had something, Chumpt. Seven years I've been doing this, Josh. Seven years! 

Speaker 4: I'm going to pick some holes in the top of him, too. That's a little steamy escape. 

Speaker 11: Chocolate cream patty's done. The chantilly cream is whipped. Trying to multitask. 

Speaker 8: Bakers, you have half an hour left. Oh, you're joking me. You having a tin bath? 

Speaker 3: This is it, my stormy's coming. 

Speaker 11: This is banana for the banoffee. The shoe, up a minute off being done. Really, really happy. 

Speaker 6: I can just hear that they're hollow. 

Speaker 11: Just going to poke some holes in them, into the least thing. Then I'm going to put them back in just for like five minutes. This just, hopefully, completely dries them out. 

Speaker 4: I've left a lot of them on the body, straight, haven't I? No, they're not soft. This tent does strange things to me. 

Speaker 6: Fortunately, I've got lots of really good ones, so I can just pick my four favourites. 

Speaker 11: Cherry jam. I'm just going to blitz this so it can fold through into the cream. Yeah, that's cool. 

Speaker 4: These are going to be macerated with some of fruit punch. Let's see how I get on. 

Speaker 6: Yeah, why is it doing that? This is coffee pastry cream. I'll put a bit in the first hole, then I'll go for the second hole, and then I'll stop once this first hole starts to ooze out again. So I know that I've gone all the way through. 

Speaker 5: You have 15 minutes left. I don't think I'm going to be able to do it, am I? 

Speaker 11: Creme pat first. I need to get as much in as I can. 

Speaker 4: Chantilly cream. Wallah. I see. 

Speaker 11: It's difficult to get the bananas to squeeze through. 

Speaker 4: This is my debut appearance of a transferring onto acetate. 

Speaker 6: I'll just do some very thin lines of chocolate. 

Speaker 4: This is my praline paste. This is going into my ganache. 

Speaker 5: You have five minutes left. 

Speaker 6: Just about OK, time-wise. You just want to finish off these other ones now? I'm going to run out of filling, I think. Oh, f***! 

Speaker 8: Sorry. Bakers, you only have one minute left. One minute? 

Speaker 7: I just don't want to run around on a night. F***, babe. Oh, he's slipper. 

Speaker 5: Bakers, your time is up. Please step away from your final signature challenge, Eclers. It's judgement time in the final signature challenge. 

Speaker 2: Hi, Josh. Hello. Hi, Josh. Hi, Ed. 

Speaker 9: Like the look of them, I think they're all pretty much the same size, pretty uniform across the board. 

Speaker 2: Well, that's perfectly filled. I'm always so cross when I have an empty clear. The flavours are very delicate, but they are absolutely delicious. 

Speaker 9: I think, for me, it's a little bit too sweet. OK. It almost needs a sharpness to make that pop even more. This is the chocolate coffee. Yeah. Now, that's clever. Chocolate's the right level, it gives a lovely texture to it as well, the crackling on the top. Coffee level is absolutely spot on. Filled well, baked well. That's delicious. 

Speaker 2: I love coffee, Eclers. And it is perfect. Thank you, Josh. Thank you. 

Speaker 1: Those cherry on the top look ridiculous. OK. If you're going to put cherry on the top, make sure it's all the same. Shall we start with the banana first? I like the flavour of the banana. You're missing the caramel. I know you tried to get on the outside. 

Speaker 2: But for banana lovers, this is perfect. Thank you. Now, that's the first one we've had that is properly firm. 

Speaker 9: I like the taste of the black roast gatto. You could have done more cherry. OK. 

Speaker 2: But I think the chocolate is lovely, the booze is good. And most of all, I like the crisp, firm, Eclare. Thank you, man. 

Speaker 9: Thank you. These look a bit messy. These, it's the wrong shape for this. You can't have something that's too big that sits over the top, shadowing your world of need. 

Speaker 4: I think you've attempted too much. They do look very soggy. The flavour is lovely, it's not too sweet, it's really strawberries and cream, but it's a bit soggy. 

Speaker 9: You've destroyed it by adding too much cream to the top. This is the praline, isn't it? Not convinced about the flavour on that. You're not. I think it's probably the grain. 

Speaker 2: I agree that the filling is not satin smooth, but I think the flavour's great. I think it looks a mess. 

Speaker 4: Paul picked up on all my technical issues, and again, I've been guilty of overthinking it. 

Speaker 11: Nine weeks ago, I would not have been able to produce anything like that, so... Yeah. 

Speaker 6: Weird. I think I have quite a strong signature overall. We're just going to technical now as we get through, and hopefully it isn't just step one, make this, and that's it. I'm hoping for a little bit of help along the way. 

Speaker 5: The baker's last technical challenge is as ever a total mystery. 

Speaker 8: It's time for your final technical challenge, and today it's been set for you by Mr Paul Hollywood. What can we say about Paul Hollywood? We've heard his poetry, we've seen his dance moves, we've seen him stripped down to trunks and wrestle a live bear. I'm sure you've all fallen in love with him, and he loves you too, although he will destroy you one by one. 

Speaker 5: Paul, have you got any words of advice for our incredible finalists? 

Speaker 9: For perfection, you're going to need patience. 

Speaker 8: As ever, this technical challenge will be judged blind, so we're going to have to ask these two to leave the tent. And it's the last technical challenge, so you know where they're going, don't you? Where they're going? To make sweet, sweet love. 

Speaker 5: LAUGHTER For your final technical challenge, Paul would like you to bake a batch of nine lardy cake slices. 

Speaker 8: Now, the judges will be looking for perfectly laminated dough packed with soaked fruit and homemade candied peel. 

Speaker 5: You have three hours... ..on your marks. Get set. Bake! Right, let's have a look at you. A lardy cake? 

Speaker 6: I've heard the name, but I don't have a clue what one looks like. 

Speaker 8: No one makes lardy cake, do they? Not since the war. 

Speaker 6: No, it sounds like one from that era, doesn't it? 

Speaker 5: Do you not know what a lardy cake is? No. Oh, dear. 

Speaker 2: What a lovely nostalgic bake for a final. Lardy cake. 

Speaker 9: We've revisited a British classic. It's been around for hundreds of years, and it was a way of using up predominantly pig fat. But don't forget, fat is flavour. Yeah. So I'm really flavoursome. LAUGHTER It's a cross between a Danish pastry and a bread. This is all about getting your timing right. Get the dough done as quickly as possible to get it in that groove, and then you're layering it with sugar, lard, butter and fruit. On the second prove, be patient. The longer, the better. That opens the whole thing up, but it'll condensate, they don't bake it properly, and it'll look and taste quite raw. 

Speaker 2: You can see the layers. It's lovely. 

Speaker 9: And you can see all the fruit in there, evenly distributed. 

Speaker 2: Lard, sugar and a bit of fruit. Lemon. 

Speaker 11: Line the roast into the baking paper, then grease with lard and sprinkle with sugar. 

Speaker 6: I assume this is going to help colour up the lardy cakes. 

Speaker 5: Obviously, you are the oldest of the bakers. Oh, my God. So you must know what a lardy cake is. LAUGHTER Make the bread dough. Make the bread dough. 

Speaker 11: The grams of lard. So I'm going to breadcrumbs it, then add the yeast and water. 

Speaker 4: I'll just add a little bit at a time. Add the water, and then once it comes together, I'm going to put the lard in. I don't know. I don't know if I should be doing it like this. 

Speaker 8: Sounds really healthy, lardy cake. That's the problem with baking, isn't it? 

Speaker 6: LAUGHTER Yeah, I've got to do plenty of runs once it's finished. There. The kneading. 

Speaker 11: How many times have we made a variation of bread? Is this even bloody bread? What is this? 

Speaker 6: I don't know. I'll put it in the proofing drawer. Probably give it half an hour, but we'll just see how we're doing. I'm not happy with that. 

Speaker 14: I'm just going to go with it. Bye-bye, my little cherub. 

Speaker 4: I'm going to go for about 30 minutes, see how it looks. Patience is the key. 

Speaker 6: Set five. Make diced candied orange, boiling twice in fresh water, and then a third time in sugar syrup. 

Speaker 11: Using the microwave for speed, infuse the dried fruit with the tea. Smells lovely. 

Speaker 5: Do you want any rum in it? No. Cos I'm from Jamaica, I soak my fruits in rum. There's none. Any vodka? No. 

Speaker 11: Nothing, unfortunately. Just water. Just water. 

Speaker 10: Dry with a tea bag. 

Speaker 5: Finalists, you are halfway through. 

Speaker 4: That's been in for about 35 minutes. That's been in for 45 minutes. Laminate the dough with lard, butter, filling, mixture. 

Speaker 11: Doesn't say what to do with the lard. Can I smear the lard? 

Speaker 4: Let's get it rocking and rolling. 

Speaker 6: I think I might actually just make sure I've got this evenly spread. 

Speaker 11: Maybe I... Brush the lard. 

Speaker 8: Have you had a breakdown? What's happening here? 

Speaker 17: Look at you just pushing lard. It's a bit straight. I don't even know you might as well just grease ourselves up in lard. Just go the whole hog. I'm in, if you are. 

Speaker 10: I never turned something like that down. 

Speaker 4: Right, lamination. Let's make some spears for lamination. 

Speaker 6: Perform three single letter folds. Which is that? What is it? That. I'm going to do it carefully because I want them to see those layers. 

Speaker 4: It's been around 90 degrees. Obviously, everything's a bit warm, unfortunately. But that's one letter fold, so I want the layers to be even. But it's getting a bit warm. That's two. Stay with me, bread. I need to give it one more fold. I'm not liking my look at this. 

Speaker 11: Pleased with that. It just says Proving Tin. 

Speaker 8: The second proof needs to be as long as possible. But any attempt to speed it up in the heat of the Proving Draw could melt the lard, ruining the rise in the lamination. No, maybe I'll just leave it on the side. I don't know yet. Put in the draw. 

Speaker 6: I really want to give it half an hour proof. Half an hour? 

Speaker 11: I don't know how long it's a bake for. If I can work on bake time. Some bake, 40. 

Speaker 8: Bakers, you have an hour left. 

Speaker 11: So that means proof only 20 minutes. 

Speaker 6: I'm going in. It's feeling very, very springy, so that's what you want. So, I'm going to put that in. I'm going to start with half an hour. 

Speaker 5: This is looking great! Look at that! The worst thing is... Dan, you don't know whether that is what it's supposed to look like, do 

Speaker 4: you? I'm not a clue now, can it? It doesn't look... Brilliant. Bake, I'm thinking 200. 200 may go to temperature for bread. 30. Maybe 40, maybe 30. Patience. It's like painful. 

Speaker 8: We have 15 minutes left. 

Speaker 6: I don't know with it. It's had half an hour now. I'll just give it another... 35 is what I had in my head. 

Speaker 4: I've just cracked up to 220 just to... WHISTLE Give it a wiggle. Maybe another five? 

Speaker 6: I want you to leave it in the tin for 10 minutes before turning out. 

Speaker 11: OK, start that now. I'm bringing it off. 

Speaker 4: It's dark behind. Looks like it's been cremated. Brush the lidocate with the reserve orange syrup. 

Speaker 11: Cool completely upside down, then cut to nine rectangles. There's no chance of me calling it completely. How long do we have left? 

Speaker 5: Bakers, you've got five minutes left. Right. Looks pretty tasty, doesn't it? 

Speaker 4: It is very hot still. And I'll be lucky to cut in any way, shape or form. 

Speaker 11: I can smell the orange. Looks a bit dense in places. We can see the layers, don't we? Baked anyway. 

Speaker 14: Baked. Your time is up. Please bring your lardy cakes and place them behind your photos. 

Speaker 4: Well, they're varying degrees of weirdness, aren't they? 

Speaker 5: Paul and Prue are expecting golden brown lardy cakes. We've clearly defined layers and evenly packed with plum sweet fruit. 

Speaker 9: Obviously, they've been struggling with proving. OK. We start with this one. We have got nine and they are sort of square. That one feels a little light, which is good. The lamination you can see behind is going across. The flavour's there. 

Speaker 2: But what's so lovely about this is the mixed peel. I think that's really delicious. 

Speaker 9: LAUGHTER Now, moving on to this King Alfred... 

Speaker 2: There's only slightly King Alfred. Come on, it's... Slightly. Well, it's caramelised a lot. 

Speaker 9: It is caramelised a lot. It's over-baked. So, you see the layers, they're sort of... Not really even. It's a nice flavour. It's just a little bit dry. It's too dry. It is too dry. Moving on... 

Speaker 2: This isn't properly baked, is it? No. It's got lots of fruit in it. 

Speaker 9: It has got lots of fruit in it. Yeah. It needed more proving as well, but it is quite dense, this. You see how quite raw that is? Because that doesn't mean laminated properly. It's a shame. 

Speaker 8: Paul and Prue will now rank the lardy cakes from worst to first. 

Speaker 9: OK, in third spot, we have... This one, who's this? Matty, lamination is really bad. You need more proving and more baking. Right. No problem. 

Speaker 2: Number two, we have this one. Dan, stayed in the oven a bit too long, didn't he? 

Speaker 9: Which means, in first place, we have this one, Josh. It's pretty decent. It's the right colour, and it's certainly the right flavour. It's well done. Well done, mate. I wasn't after that. 

Speaker 4: Really, really pleased. I would say Josh has probably got his nose in front. I'm being, yeah, me and Matty are scrapping at the bottom. Oh. For the man now. 

Speaker 11: I'm glad I had a good signature, because otherwise I'd probably be a bit deflated. 

Speaker 5: There's just one challenge remaining in this year's Bake Off. 

Speaker 6: What this time, isn't it? In the zone. 

Speaker 5: Well, guys, we've made it to the final. I just hope the sunshine comes out. I'm sure it will. Who do you think is bringing the sunshine right now? Are they even? 

Speaker 9: I think it is pretty even. I think Josh has got a slight edge. I think he's slightly ahead. 

Speaker 8: Weirdly, Matty is sitting in second place, I would say. If he wins it, he would have played an absolute blinder, because he's always just underneath the top. 

Speaker 5: Can we talk a little bit about Dan? 

Speaker 9: I think he's going to struggle against the other two at the moment, but I think what often happens in the final bake is the pressure gets to him. Anyone of them could win. What about Amos? 

Speaker 8: Right, so I've just put £20,000 on Amos to win. It's good odds. I bet. 

Speaker 5: BAKERS, it's your final ever showstopper challenge. The judges would like you to create an elegant, tiered celebration cake inspired by your very first bake. 

Speaker 8: They would like you to take your first bake and elevate it into something incredible, something that could win the entire competition. 

Speaker 5: You have four and a half hours for this. On your marks... Get set... BAKER Come on, Dan. 

Speaker 6: There's lots of elements to do, so timing is definitely the thing I'm most worried about. 

Speaker 11: I just know how I want it to look. I will spend the time to make it, and that will be my downfall. 

Speaker 9: They have to make a minimum three-tier cake to celebrate their very first bake. 

Speaker 2: But we're looking for that to be the inspiration for something completely new and different and wonderful. 

Speaker 9: We want it highly decorated. We want tartness, we want sweetness, we want textures. This is the biggest bake they will ever do. If it was me, I'm a big fan of the lemon drizzle. That would be my favourite. 

Speaker 2: But sometimes the bakers tell us that this is going to be a lemon cake and it doesn't have enough lemon flavour. You have to deliver what you see, you're going to deliver. 

Speaker 4: My first footstep into baking was a lemon drizzle cake. The lemon meringue pie as well, so my three-tier cake today is celebrating both of those two absolute beauties of the baking world. 

Speaker 8: Dan's final tilt at the title is a towering triple-tiered love letter to lemon drizzle. Layered with lemon curd, limoncello creme mousseline and raspberry compote, his showstopper will be finished with torch-to-tallion meringue, shiny white chocolate colours, and one final citrus flourish. 

Speaker 4: I'm also going to make some macarons as well to decorate around the outside. Lemon macarons? Yeah, lemon macarons with lemon curd and raspberry compote filling. 

Speaker 9: I mean, he's obviously been doing this hand-waving, he knows that we like lemon. Which is fine, because it was your first bake. Yeah, I love lemon. 

Speaker 4: Which is lucky. Oh, OK, well, yeah. Well, I need to do it right. 

Speaker 8: You know, Rahul made me a lemon drizzle cake for my 50th birthday. Oh, did he? Ten years ago. 

Speaker 1: But one finalist is going even more traditional than a lemon drizzle. 

Speaker 6: The bake that it stems from is a Victoria sponge. It's the first one I remember doing with my nan. 

Speaker 5: Josh will combine his first bakes with his other passion in the seasonal celebration of his garden with a spring and summer-inspired rhubarb and strawberry jam and autumnal apple in his Victoria sponges. 

Speaker 9: It's quite tricky to put apple in sponge to get the flavour to come through. Yeah. For decoration, what's the whole thing and it looks like? 

Speaker 6: So, the three tiers are decorated for spring, summer and autumn. And then I'm going to do a biscuit greenhouse on top. 

Speaker 2: With boiled sweet windows. 

Speaker 6: Yeah, with little panels, yeah, like that. 

Speaker 2: Oh, my goodness, Josh. This is quite a lot. 

Speaker 17: Sounds like a shy stuff, right? Keep your cool. Yeah, I'll try. Thank you, Josh. 

Speaker 4: I have gone through a bit of a stronger batter, so it doesn't lose its shape when it gets put together. 

Speaker 11: Genoese is a little bit of a risk, I guess, to go on the bottom tier because it's such a light cake. But I feel like the pro is outweigh the cons on this one. I've gone for it because it's quick to make, quick to bake, quick to cool. I've never stacked a cake until this week. 

Speaker 8: Inspired by the chocolate treats that got him into baking, Matty's first ever tiered cake will see chocolate Genoese sandwiched with French buttercream and crumbled brownie, and a lemon and rosemary Victoria sandwich with a fresh summer fruit jam. 

Speaker 5: You know that you're a baker. Do you think you'll bring baking into the schools? What bake would you bring to your kids? 

Speaker 11: Probably the brownies. I've already brought them into them once, but they think Lara made them. Really? 

Speaker 5: Yeah. So you just lied and said my girlfriends had brought them? Yeah. Why, though? What is so embarrassing about people knowing that you're a baker? No, I don't know, really. You don't have to lie anymore because your bakes taste amazing. 

Speaker 8: How these final showstopper taste could prove even more important than the spectacular look. 

Speaker 4: I want the cake to be strong with lemon, but not too sort of like that. 

Speaker 6: I want to have the essence of Victoria sandwich, but I also want to elevate it. So this is my roof, I'll... They're not my strawberries because I have ran out. They've been ravaged for all of the past weeks I've done. 

Speaker 5: But past weeks may not bode well for Matty's chosen flavours. 

Speaker 11: In week one, I had a stinker with the buttercream. So I've changed the recipe slightly. I kind of need to learn in my own way. It takes me a few mistakes to learn. 

Speaker 4: I'm slightly worried about time already. 

Speaker 5: For three tiers, the finalists will need to bake at least six sponges. Seven minutes left. Which will require batch baking. Have a little look at that brownie in a second and all. And a constant eye on the clock. 

Speaker 8: There you go, I've stopped it. Actually, if that hit Josh in the eye, he had to go to hospital and the whole thing was cancelled. One way to stop him winning it, won't it? 

Speaker 11: What are we on to now? I'll be back. I can start to make the next batter. I'm going to go in my second mix now. 

Speaker 5: Four and a half hours, do you think it's enough time? I think it's amper right? No? 

Speaker 4: See how big I got, Tom? I'm pretty happy with that. 

Speaker 11: These are going in. Just now, all on me, getting the bakes done quick enough that I can have enough time. 

Speaker 8: But damn, we'll need to find the time to bake more than just sponges. 

Speaker 4: I'm only on step four. Ridiculous. The idea of a macaron is to get a nice skin on them, so once I've piped them, I'm going to leave them for a good hour. Let's get these in. 

Speaker 11: This is the Swiss meringue buttercream now. So I've got two on the go, plus a bit of cake. That's got about eight minutes to go. 

Speaker 4: Whilst in the tin, whilst it's still warm, make some holes in it and then just shove lemon juice on. Soon was lemon in that damn. Sorry, Paul. 

Speaker 8: Bakers, you're halfway through! What? I know. Love these ovens. 

Speaker 11: I think they're done there a bit, like, not straight, but I'll have to trim that. 

Speaker 7: Just taste of the curd, that tastes beautiful. Done, Matt, done, Matt, done, Matt, done, Matt. 

Speaker 11: You've just got a big list you're working for. Yeah, look, the buttercream's are made, jam's made. Not too bad. Yeah, but this part is where it gets hard. 

Speaker 8: Crazy. Is that assembly? Yeah. 

Speaker 5: If constructing a three-tiered cake wasn't hard enough... 

Speaker 11: It's the assembly and making it look pretty as we're on pants. 

Speaker 5: Whilst building, Dan still has baking to do. Well behind. It's all right, I'll do it. 

Speaker 8: But he's not alone. 

Speaker 6: What's going down here? This is my, uh, green hour on top. 

Speaker 8: You're like, Da Vinci, have you got enough time to do everything you want to do? 

Speaker 6: I'm never going to have enough time to do everything that I would love to do, but... If you've factored that in, of course you have. Yeah, I've got a couple of backups of what I can do in terms of... That's why I love you. 

Speaker 8: Just in case things don't go to plan. Plan B and a plan C in your back pocket. Matty could be in need of his own plan B. That was a little bit not too dumb. The sponges for his middle tier are underbaked. That's a bummer. How long do we have? Bakers, you have one hour left. F***! 

Speaker 10: Can I go home now, please? 

Speaker 11: Five minutes at really high. And then I'll put them straight in the freezer. Probably will affect the bake slightly. But it is what it is. 

Speaker 7: I've got to be prancing this whole, aren't I? I'm pinging out. I don't think I'm going to do it. I don't think I'm going to do it. 

Speaker 6: Once you've got these out, the other one will start straight away doing the assembly. 

Speaker 11: So we've got chocolate genoese, Swiss meringue and then chocolate French buttercream and then brownie. Let's have a little gander. Take them to a dump. I don't know, but I haven't got that much time left. 

Speaker 6: What stupid idea was this? That's the last plot of canals. It is, I feel like. 

Speaker 4: I can go off now. I'm inserting dowels. 

Speaker 11: Or I need to put the dowels in, actually, as well. 

Speaker 6: This is the white chocolate buttercream. We need to get going with cake. And then freezer. That's the first one of those done. All right, come on. 40 minutes. Get some fruit jam. 

Speaker 4: I just need to get my fridge for... That's not how it takes. It's nearly done. 

Speaker 6: All right, macaron. I've just done a middle layer with strawberry mousse jam, and now I'm doing the final layer. Just swapping the tears. 

Speaker 11: So how long do we have left? 

Speaker 8: Fakers, you only have half an hour left. I'm happy with that. Right. 

Speaker 4: Oh, yeah, joking, mate. Lisa does basically peel off perfectly. Come on, you stupid finger. Oh, you're f***ing cracking. 

Speaker 11: Let's see how much I learnt from Lara's art lesson. 

Speaker 4: Look a bit underdone, actually. Too soft. I just don't think I've probably made the battle well enough, to be honest, but deal with it. I need to just cut before for a second, I think. 

Speaker 1: Number two. Lara said you have to build up the colour. Be patient. You can always go in the same direction. You OK? 

Speaker 8: No. You need it all to get smooth today, though. Yeah. Dig deep. You can do this. I can do it. Where did you get this design from? 

Speaker 11: It's kind of like... I'm not very good at doing it any other way. 

Speaker 5: Nobody works there. It looks really arty, doesn't it? 

Speaker 6: This is going to be spring at the top. I've got a two-sit and a potoclo. 

Speaker 4: It's just going to look very rushed, this. 

Speaker 5: Bakers, you have 15 minutes left. Come on. Don't swear, Dan. Come on. 

Speaker 11: We're getting to kind of like the critical point where I need to stack it. 

Speaker 6: Don't want it to lean. 

Speaker 4: Dog's dinner. 

Speaker 6: I want to put the greenhouse on now, and then I can finish any time I've got spare. I'll just do some decoration. How long's left? 

Speaker 8: Looking good, bakers. You have 10 minutes left. 

Speaker 6: I'm going to have to rush a lot of decoration there. I need a blowtorch. 

Speaker 7: I don't know why I'm in the bobbering. Goadly f***ing have it. 

Speaker 6: These are my giant marrows that I'd harvest in the autumn. 

Speaker 4: I'll hide it with a macaron pool. I'm true. We'll never know it. 

Speaker 11: I want to do some piping around the outside of it just to make it look a little bit fancier. I've got a laugh now. One minute left. 

Speaker 14: It's messy. It's messy. Don't look behind you and look at Josh's whatever you do. 

Speaker 5: Bakers, your time is now up. Walk away rapidly. Please step away from your bakes. We love you. Well done. Thank you, then. Come on, go on. I don't worry about it. 

Speaker 8: Oh, no, my mistake. You've got four minutes left. 

Speaker 18: The winner of this year's bake-off will be announced at a very special garden party in front of the baker's families and some old friends. 

Speaker 19: I'm back at the tent. It's so exciting. Just like when we family all together again. 

Speaker 12: We've got like a group chat and we all talk on there and post pictures of what we've been doing. And that's really lovely. 

Speaker 20: It's so nice to be here and not be baking and just feel like you can enjoy all the wonderful cakes and that that have been made. 

Speaker 6: In my mind, I think Dan's going to win. But I think he's going to be so close. I think we're all incredible. 

Speaker 5: We're all good at different things. I literally can't call it. 

Speaker 20: If I had to say something, maybe Josh, either Dan, or Josh, or Matty. One of those. I think Matty could surprise everyone. 

Speaker 16: It's probably like asking a parent to pick their favourite child. It's a very difficult call, Josh. 

Speaker 5: Dan, for one last time, bring up your showstopper. 

Speaker 9: Dan, tell us all about your final showstopper. 

Speaker 4: So this is my lemon, drizzle and meringue cake with a lemon curd and raspberry compote topped with Italian meringue and decorated with some macarons filled with the lemon curd and raspberry compote. 

Speaker 9: I quite like the white chocolate against the raspberry. I like the meringue as well. Those macarons are terrible. I know, I don't know what's going on with them. I wouldn't even bother putting them on. Because it sort of ruins it. 

Speaker 2: I did think it was quite ambitious to do three chocolate collars. 

Speaker 9: It's cracked quite a bit. Yeah. Looks a lovely sponge there. Doesn't it? Doesn't it? You know, it needs more lemon. The drizzle only comes into so far, and then it stops, so... Ah, OK. But the flavour is delicious, and I think the bake is lovely as well. Macarons let it down dramatically. Yeah. 

Speaker 2: And the bake's not right either. No, I don't know what's gone on. It's really pasty. 

Speaker 4: Is it? Have I not cooked them flung enough? No, you've definitely not cooked them flung enough. No, not ever. No. It's just a little bit flawed for me. Work to be done for next week, then. LAUGHTER Thanks, really. Thanks very much. 

Speaker 8: Matty, would you like to bring up your share stopper, please? 

Speaker 2: Matty, tell us about your share stopper. 

Speaker 11: The top and bottom tier are inspired by a chocolate cake. So, it's a chocolate genoise sponge with a French chocolate buttercream and chocolate brownie coated in a Swiss meringue buttercream. The middle tier is a Victoria sponge. So, it's lemon and rosemary with summerfruit jam and an American buttercream. 

Speaker 2: It's leaning a bit. The dramatic effect. 

Speaker 11: What happened, then? I mustn't have done much of a job with the dows. 

Speaker 2: I must say, Matty, I love the colour combinations and the way you've done it. 

Speaker 9: I like the decoration, I like the piping, I like the fruit, the drop for me is the big problem. Yeah, it's done me. But let's have a look at what it's like inside. Wow, that's one light sponge. 

Speaker 2: Wow! I don't know, that looks beautiful, doesn't it? I mean, I'm surprised it weighs enough to cause the lean. 

Speaker 9: What a great cake. Thank you. Now you're getting the chocolate coming out. It's a really light, chocolaty, moorish sponge. It's absolutely delicious. 

Speaker 2: I have no good reason to having another bite than I got to. I love the jam. 

Speaker 9: I like the cake. It reminds me of some of the nice, birthday cakes I had when I was a kid. That's a beautiful sponge. All the flavours are perfect. Thank you. Really perfect, Matty. 

Speaker 2: You know what? There's nothing wrong with this cake, except it's on the lean. That's such a pity, because it's only one mistake. Yeah. Everything else is absolutely perfect. Thank you, Matty. Thank you very much. 

Speaker 4: Well done, Matty, lad. Awesome. Well done, mate. Good luck, mate. 

Speaker 6: Josh did hang it off the table. I think we'll be OK. We'll see. 

Speaker 5: Josh, it's time for your show, stopper. 

Speaker 1: Josh, tell us all about your final show, stopper. 

Speaker 6: So, I've called this show stopper a slice for all seasons. So, it's all representing the seasons in the garden. It's always inspired by a Victoria sandwich. So, the bottom tier is an apple and lemon sponge with a lemon curd and a white chocolate buttercream. 

And the top two tiers are the same. They're an apple and vanilla sponge with a strawberry barbed jam and a white chocolate buttercream in it as well. And it's all got Swiss meringue buttercream around the outside and my biscuit greenhouse on top. 

Speaker 2: I think the greenhouse is great, and I think the colours are beautiful. 

Speaker 9: It is straight and it is level. The pipework is not very neat. You could have spent another half hour on that to create a much more polished image. 

Speaker 2: Do you want to keep this intact or can I taste the biscuit? 

Speaker 6: You can taste it if you want. There's some strawberry in the biscuit and they're minced, used for the panels. Very clever, Dan. There's a sugar biscuit in it. Yeah, just, yeah, about bound together with some... 

Speaker 2: Really minty, isn't it? It is minty. It is minty. 

Speaker 9: Thank you. Oh, you like that. Well, let's have a look and see if we can try this spring. 

Speaker 2: Mmm. Jam is perfect. I like the sponge. 

Speaker 9: I'm not getting any apple. It hasn't showed up to the party. 

Speaker 2: No, you can't taste the apple. No. 

Speaker 9: You've gone with the rhubarb and strawberry on this one. It needs something more. OK. 

Speaker 2: This one's got a little compressed with the weight of the others. Yeah, thanks. Lovely lemon curd. 

Speaker 9: The lemon curd's nice. It's got a nice flavour. 

Speaker 2: I think you need another layer of lemon curd. 

Speaker 9: I question whether that sponge is actually overbaked as well. I think your flavours are adequate and for me, I wanted to see much more of your journey in the tent in that cake. I think boring is too strong a word. But it's on its way. 

Speaker 21: It's not your best shot. Thanks, Josh. Thank you very much, Josh. 

Speaker 18: MUSIC I think he was probably being a bit harsher because I set my own standards on my showtop. And I know that the finesse wasn't probably quite there as I've, like, I don't know who's going to win. I think it might be between me and Matty, maybe. Hopefully I've done enough with yesterday as well, maybe. 

Speaker 4: I've got absolutely no idea to be honest. I don't feel like I'm going to win it, so I think it's between them two personally. Blimey. That could be enough. CHEERING AND APPLAUSE CHEERING Hello, you. 

Speaker 1: Come here. 

Speaker 8: Whilst the bakers are reunited with their families, crew and Paul have a huge decision to make. That's it. We've done the last showstopper. 

Speaker 4: Pretty good cake. Just eat your fingers in all of them, maybe. All right, Sammy. 

Speaker 8: You guys were always telling Dan to simplify. Today he definitely did simplify, but he didn't get all the elements right. But with Josh, you've never told him to simplify, and usually his showstoppers are a bit more clever. 

Speaker 2: I don't think that the decoration was defined enough, and it wasn't up to his usual standard. 

Speaker 9: But he's still in line for winning, because he had a good day yesterday. Yeah, he did. And I think Matty is also pushed himself into that possibility of winning as well because of what he's done today and because of his flavours. 

Speaker 2: The only thing that was wrong was Matty's. It was on the wonk. It was on the wonk. 

Speaker 9: But then you look at yesterday, in the signature, they were very close. Josh won the technical. 

Speaker 8: Josh won Matty's third in the technical. Matty was bottom. 

Speaker 6: Technical yesterday was really good. Really pleased with that. It is tight. 

Speaker 8: I wouldn't want to be in your shoes. 

Speaker 2: I want a cup of tea and another slice. OK. 

Speaker 5: Can I be the person who actually announced the winner? That's all I want. 

Speaker 8: You should do it, because it's probably your last year. 

Speaker 14: You feeling Matty all right, mate? Yeah, I just need another one, obviously. 

Speaker 4: I'm getting my way as well. 

Speaker 8: First, we'd like to thank everyone for coming on this beautiful sunny day. And I'd like to invite up the free finalists. Round of applause for Dan. APPLAUSE Josh and Matty. 

Speaker 5: Obviously, we'd want every single one of you to win, but there can only be one winner. So, it gives me great pleasure to announce that the winner of the Great British Bake Off 2023 goes to... 

Speaker 1: Matty! CHEERING Here's to you, Charlie. Well done. Thank you. Well done, mate. 

Speaker 1: Well done. Thank you, mate. Good job. Good job, Matty. You won, mate. 

Speaker 4: Thank you. 

Speaker 1: I don't know what to say. I don't know what to say. APPLAUSE Oh, no! 

Speaker 11: People say you should go on Bake Off, and I just thought it was like a throwaway comment. Never really listened to it. I never thought that I would be on this. 

Speaker 10: Let alone win it. We're all going to put this... 

Speaker 11: I can't even have it on show for a while, can I? Well done! Oh, my God! So, trust from Matty. 

Speaker 6: When it always comes to the casing thing, he has been fantastic, so he's such a worthy winner, and he's such a lovely chap as well. You're only the winner? 

Speaker 4: How amazing is that? He was going home six times. I had a feeling Matty was going to win. He's done it on the date, counted, and I am honestly so happy for him. What a kid. I absolutely love him. 

Speaker 2: I've never met a more cheerful, smiling, uncomplaining and willing baker. He just was having a good time, learning as much as he could, taking on board everything either of us said. 

Speaker 9: And he's just got better and better and better. And if you're going to smash it, you do it in the last challenge. And that's exactly what he did. That chocolate cake was one of the best chocolate cakes I've had for a long, long time. 

Speaker 11: Lara. Lara, I need you. There's been so many ups, there's been so many downs, there's been so many times where I've had to been pulled through by the people closest around me. 

Certainly Lara. I can't imagine I've been too fun to live with in the last ten weeks. I'm happy for them as much as I am for me with this one. It still doesn't really feel real. I don't know, I don't really know. 

Speaker 17: What do you think it was that got you near? Lara. Look at him. 

Speaker 9: Oh, God, sorry. 

Speaker 1: Oh, God. We don't notice any time pass. We don't notice anything. We sit side by side in every class. Teacher thinks that I sound funny, but she likes the way you sing. Tonight I'll dream while I'm in bed when silly thoughts go through my head. 

About the bugs and alphabet. When I wake tomorrow I'll bet that you and I will walk together again. I can tell that we are going to be friends. I can tell that we are going to be friends. 

Speaker 5: Bye. Are you a star baker in the making? If you'd like to apply for the next series of Bake Off, visit Channel 4.com forward slash take part. Subscribe to the channel. Subscribe to the channel. Subscribe to the channel. Subscribe to the channel. Subscribe to the channel. Subscribe to the channel. Subscribe to the channel. 